is it good all right cut all this out
hello Adam hey thanks for having me
thanks for being here man
I'm a giant fan of your show I really
appreciate that the fact that it annoys
people - that's the goal pretty much you
know I mean I another guy a person where
I'm like if you're pissing people off
you're doing something right but there's
some truth to that and also the way you
structured the name you know if you came
up with the name of but everyone's
everything I think I might have to give
that to my to my former boss samurais
Chicago humor might have might have I
think we came up with the name together
he might have been the first person to
say it but yeah thank you I'm really
yeah I like let's you know it lets you
know that hey this is gonna know you a
little bit they're like I'm gonna be
telling you shit that you don't want to
hear that's gonna make everything a
little bit worse you know but at the end
of the day it makes it better it's an
optimistic show at the end of the day
we're yeah yeah you give them the truth
I think that yeah I mean the the the
thesis of the show is that it's always
better to know the truth it's a
momentarily uncomfortable but hopefully
for most people 99% of people who watch
the show it grinds your gears a little
bit to find out something oh I thought
that was true with that crap you know
but then at the end we show you why
you're actually better off knowing that
thing and you're always better off
knowing the truth in my view in my view
as well yeah is was there ever and it
was a one episode that stands out as
being one that people got the most upset
about there's a bunch of them I mean
people get people get upset with us
for a lot of different reasons we did
one about how breastfeeding isn't better
than formula-feeding it's you know
they're both like formula-feeding is
fine you know and if the promise
formula-feeding has become a stigma to
stigmatized now and there's a lot of
people who can't breastfeed or who for
medical reasons you know and the fact is
that for me formula is like a
scientifically proven wonderful way to
feed a baby and if you know someone's
choice or need is to do that there's no
reason to stigmatize them we go through
all the reasons that that that's the
case and yeah people get a little you
know there's a lot of people who sort of
have an ideology about that you know and
don't want to hear the truth about it we
did one about trophy hunting animals
about how because people young people
get so mad I look at this guy shot a
lion right and the truth is that in some
countries not 100% of the time
but in some countries they are
effectively using trophy hunting as a
way to to protect the animals because
you know there that's how they are able
to sort of like monetize you know in
that place
and you know get money coming in in
order to protect the animals and they're
they're very specific and strategic
about it and it can be part of a good
you know sort of animal management you
know strategy and it's being used to
some success you know and yet people
don't want to hear that right it's still
really hard that's a weird one to me and
I hunt yeah yeah that that hold the
whole lion right well what they can do
is they can say okay well we've got
these elephants one of these elephants
is an old male that's like killing the
other elephants right and if we organize
these hunts where you got to pay half a
million dollars for the right to even go
in there does that happen with old male
elephants I know it that was the issue
with that giraffe
no that was the case yeah there was a
there was a woman who got in trouble
because she shot this really beautiful
giraffe it was really dark and unusually
coloured and was dark because was very
old and older the giraffe apparently the
males get really dark hmm was really
cool looking but she shot it and
everybody went crazy on the internet
because you know she was posing and
smiling with this yeah but apparently
that giraffe had to be killed because it
had killed at least two maybe three
young males and it was no longer of a
viable breeding age so they they were in
this situation where they didn't have
the money to take it and bring it to a
zoo somewhere yeah and the they would
have gotten money from having this woman
come in and shoot it yes what they did
yeah that's sort of that's sort of the
idea you know I mean one of the issues
is if you've got an area where you know
one of the problems is you need to have
a reason for the people who live in the
place to care about the animals you know
what I mean if it's just like hey the
ovens are gonna roam free well you've
got people there who are like alright
fine so I'm living near some elephants
occasionally that you
my crops and shit and that annoys me I
don't really yeah yeah exactly
I don't give a shit about that and what
that allows to happen is allows poachers
to come in and kill them wantonly right
but if instead ok we're protecting them
we have a revenue stream right we get
money when you know hunters come in and
pay a lot of money to go kill one animal
right now we've got a way to hire guards
we've got a way this is now a resource
that we're protecting right and that
sounds a little cynical but it is
working in some places and it's both
cynical and affect and effective and we
have a we had a woman on from the IUCN
International think Union for
Conservation of Nature vation group
talking about how this is effective now
in some places if you got a corrupt
government we're just gonna pocket the
bunny yeah that's bad right but the
point is just because the mere idea of
someone going overseas and killing an
animal is not necessarily the worst
thing in the world we have to look at
the details the situation and it's hard
for animal lovers to hear animal lovers
don't like to hear that yeah they don't
they don't and I like I said I don't
like to hear it I wish people just just
what freaks me out more than anything is
that there's no other options it's not
like a bunch of people or donating a
bunch of money to keep these areas clean
and free of poachers and the amount
would be massive right we can donate
money but yeah yeah that that's the when
you've got a problem that big and
intractable as how do you save these
animals you know and against habitat
encroachment right again you know people
want a farm on that land people you know
people have people have lives right
they're not sitting around going the
people in those countries not sitting
around going oh I love the cute elephant
like we have the luxury to do they like
fucking live there right and so how do
you get how do you get those people in
that society to really protect those
animal that's a hard question to answer
and some places are having success with
that strategy and that's something that
we can understand we don't have to
approve of it in every single case and
we can say that's really tough for us as
animal lovers and in fact the character
who I'm talking to on the show says I
still just hate the idea of an animal
being killed right and I say yes so do i
right we try to dramatize that emotional
you know resistance on the show like
that emotional reaction that we have
yeah I I also don't like the idea of an
animal being killed brutally you know
I think I'm uncomfortable with the idea
right but if my main goal is to preserve
the population these animals overall the
souther from going extinct maybe I need
to accept that this tough truth that
once in a time once in a while one's got
to be shot through the head with a rifle
maybe I need to accept that it's really
when it comes to things that people
don't like I don't understand the
psychology like Michael Douglas in the
what was that movie with the Val Kilmer
the ghost in the darkness that the Lions
that decided to kill those dudes I'd
never heard of this movie - great movie
the ghost in the darkness I feel like
it's from the 90s but it's a really good
movie about a true story about this guy
that they brought they brought this
Michael Douglas character was brought in
to hunt these lions that were
systematically targeting and killing
these workers that worked on this
railroad this team of lions worked
together and started eating people wow
that's great mowing and yeah we're good
it sounds and they have to they have to
go for the Alliance yeah yeah there is
ghosts in darkness
oh holy have a biting tension that is a
great hunter Val Kilmer is looking good
there those pre fatso looking guy -
handsome that's the problem you had to
just go off the deep end another one
people got really mad about this is this
weirdly the one we got the biggest
reaction to and to the extent that I'm a
little hesitant talking about it because
it always starts to storm every time I
do scenes no actually we've not done a
whole one on vaccines but we really
should because it's coming back I used
to think that vaccines was like kind of
done as a topic and like we've gone
through it is really it is really back
in it as big but no we did one on alpha
males we never said about dating and we
did one on how the idea of the alpha
male doesn't exist in humans like if you
talk to any anthropologist any biologist
any sociologist right and be like are
humans organized in a social
relationship where there's alpha and
beta it's the big no what are you
talking about this is an unscientific
idea right and we just did something
laying that out in the context of like
people who are oh my type is I like
alphas right well there's no such thing
actually you know
humans are some your dominance some
situations not another's right it's an
overly simplistic way of looking at
human relationships and I thought
there's a pretty simple straightforward
thing I was like it's just a bit of
pseudoscience that you hear people
tossing out and people went ballistic on
the internet because people have sort of
like built a edifice of ideology in
their minds about like there's alphas
there's betas I'm an alpha this is what
an alpha is like this is what a bait is
like you know and let's take away the
words yeah they're clearly men who are
more aggressive and athletic and
dominant and more confident and and then
men who are introverted and shy and more
nervous and anxious and there's a scale
in some in some situations you know live
situations social well yeah but your
social situation could change based on
what situation you're in you know that
in light but a like an athletic
confident male is always going to be an
athletic confident male and an
introverted anxious male who has
problems with social anxiety is going to
be the same that's that that's who that
person I don't think so necessarily but
so when we're talking about alpha alpha
is right in animals what is that it's a
social hierarchy right in let's take
away that word I mean what what people
are using to describe when they're
saying alphas and betas they're saying
like confident strong secure people and
people that are anxious and not so if
you're trying to say hey like it's good
to be confident it's not so great to be
anxious like that's that's fine right
but when people talk about alpha males
and beta males right there specifically
bringing in the language of like
evolution of biology of zoology of
evolutionary psychology you know and
they'll start saying stuff like well
there's alphas and there's betas and
women are hard-wired to be attracted to
the Alpha you know because that's what
it's like in nature like they'll be
using that language that snot scientific
right it's not but it is true that women
are hard-wired to be attracted to
confident athletic men I don't know well
I don't know if I agree with that but
yeah you don't think that women look at
like pro athletes and like big
strong athletic men and you don't think
they're drawn to that for evolutionary
reasons I know I don't actually I think
that do you think that men are drawn to
women with small waists and big hips and
large breasts for evolutionary reasons
you know I think that's an easy I think
what that is is that's an easy intuition
to come to if you're like looking at the
way people behave right but one of the
things about evolutionary psychology is
it's the most common mistake to look at
the way that people do behave and say
the reason what we behave that way is
because evolution says that's the best
way right that's their argument for
instance I'll give an exact that the
argument that was arguments like you
like that word used for instance to
justify slavery right that like oh
because you know whites and blacks have
this hierarchical relationship in
American society that's the way it was
intended that's how nature intended it
to be right Charlie the shapes of bodies
yeah men universally are attracted to a
certain shape of bodies there's men that
are attracted to different ones I don't
think I attract very but that hourglass
shape has been throughout time something
that men are attracted to I think that
hourglass shape is something throughout
our recent cultural memory that we tell
each other that men are attracted to
right that's when that's when we're
that's what we're told from an early age
to this that this is the sort of women
that men are attracted to and so a lot
of men end up adopting that right but I
don't think that deep down that's how
men naturally are you know really yeah I
read that but that doesn't make any
sense to me
that's so non-intuitive because I'm all
about things that are not you think well
where do you think it started where do
you think this this narrative of men
being attracted the woman with large
breasts and a small waist and a big ass
where do you think that started because
this is like evolutionary biology has
pretty much settled on the idea that the
reason why is the large hips would
indicate that the woman be easier to
give birth having large breasts on a
large ass and indicate that she has
she's she's fertile and then she has an
ample fat storage in the right places if
she's going to be pregnant and carry
children there's all these like
evolutionary biology reasons why people
attract to certain things why a woman
wiII be attracted to a tall muscular
hand
amande good genetics very strong and
confident to take care of her all these
things are based on evolutionary biology
so I understand why you think these are
learned sort of cultural artifacts so my
my quit my question is this is an
assumption that we the public make about
how evolutionary biology works right
well it's more of a thing that we sort
of agree on well we we as the like
there's a there's an idea among the
public that this is true I don't know if
it's a scientific idea that's that's my
you have I've had conversations with
evolutionary biologists who explained
the reason why men are attracted to
certain shapes and why women are
attracted to certain shapes this is this
is sort of I mean this is science in a
way this the reason why they're
attracted to tall men that are muscular
and confident is because that is what's
always saved you throughout history I
mean totally make sense doesn't it it
well just because it makes the the point
of our show right is that just because
something makes intuitive sense doesn't
mean that it's necessarily true right
don't you think that in this case that
this is a varied argument like I don't
think that's something that you can
dismiss I don't I don't dismiss it but I
don't assume the truth of it simply
because that's what you know everybody
agrees upon right if you ask girls like
what are you into didn't you say if you
are you into tall muscular confident men
who are also nice to do Jesus Christ
it's gonna be off the charts it's gonna
be like most of them I'm you know I'm
really not sure that's the case
really yeah thank you you had like a
survey of women and if the men were
equally kind and equally intelligent and
friendly you don't think that more women
would be sexually attracted to these
tall handsome men with great bodies I
mean look I'm not gonna I'm not gonna
say that like first of all you're
positing like a value judgment in it
that the bodies are great right so like
our women attracted to attractive bodies
if that's the question then then I would
say here's something that I was really
influenced by Iran you think of that
what I just said though that doesn't
make sense to you that women would be
attracted to someone who's fit look I
mean it's a it's a hypothetical right
like I certainly athleticism right is
something that is attractive right
that's something that many people find
attractive right not everybody finds
that attractive and I don't think that
we can necessarily reason backwards to
like a specific evolutionary
relationship right because the truth of
what those evolutionary relationships
are is like often a lot more complicated
than you know our immediate intuition
about it and what were you specifically
pushing back against in that segment is
like the really sort of unscientific you
know use of alpha and beta yeah exactly
where it's like you know you've got
people you know just on internet forums
like sort of doing amateur pseudoscience
right saying like this is how the
relationship between men and women are
like designed evolutionarily and we were
just pointing out on a very very simple
level like the Alpha and Beta social
hierarchy theory right that like humans
are organized in a social hierarchy and
alphas are above betas not true right
even someone who is the person who you
posited right the person who is athletic
and confident right the you know the
high school football quarterback right
first is the high school football nerd
right well take those two people and
then put them in a different situation
right if those two people are like in
gym class together right of course the
high school quarterback is like on the
top of that social interaction right
looking at the sort of you know classic
Wolfpack model they're the one who's
sort of running the show right and the
other guys like hanging out in the
bleachers talking to his friends right
or talking to nobody because he's a he's
a beta in that situation right if you
then take that kid and then you you know
send that kid to like nationals right or
whatever you know and that kid sir I
take the the quarterback character and
you know he's suddenly like you know
from the little podunk town right he's
not from the big school he's like way
down the totem pole right that person is
no longer going to be in that high
social hierarchy right and if you take
that nerd and you put that you know take
that kid maybe use the dungeon master of
his you know dungeon dragons group right
that that kid is gonna be the Alpha in
that situation right that's how humans
work you know humans aren't organized in
sort of like little pods that
stay together for life and there's one
person who's dominant the whole time
right and that's the simple point that
we were making in that piece right and
people you upset
yeah people got upset because there are
so many people who we talked about this
later on the show there's this idea
called the backfire effect right where
when people are told something that they
don't agree with that when they when
they someone has told somebody a fact
when somebody has told a fact that
contradicts like a really deeply held
belief it can often cause them to
disbelieve it even when it's true right
in fact that fight back even harder yeah
one of the reasons that happens is
because of an idea called identity
protective cognition it's if the fact
that is being debunked is literally part
of your identity like you know something
that you believe really really deeply
it's incredibly hard for you to
disbelieve it right the classic example
of this is like you know Sean Hannity
Sean Hannity doesn't believe in climate
change right really well you know what I
actually don't know that specifically
what Sean Sean Hannity thinks about
climate change so let's just say
somebody who's made their whole career
on climate change doesn't exist right
all their friends are in the anti
Climate Change community right they met
their wife at an anti climate change
fundraiser you know what I mean they
make their money there at a new anti
Climate Change book every year right now
climate change is real right there's no
evidence I could present that person
with that is going to make them take the
social risk of ending all their
relationships changing their whole life
right because if they were to say okay
you know what actually I'm convinced
climate change is real they would lose
all their friends their wife would leave
them they would lose their revenue
stream they can't possibly come to that
conclusion right and so they fight back
so super hard right and so that's what
ended up happening with that segment
there's a whole group of people who have
built their whole lives on the idea
there's alphas and betas I'm an alpha
I'm not gonna be a beta right and so and
and maybe that messily positive to them
you know maybe they have we're in a bad
place in their life and through this
model of alpha versus beta they started
working out or they started you know
improving themselves a little bit right
and maybe they started acting a little
bit more confidently and now they're in
a relationship right all those things
can be true with the idea of alphas and
betas and humans not being scientific
right but so when I tell them that they
fight back really hard no no no this is
this is real this is real you know and
so that video which again I had no idea
that be controversial I got the most
YouTube's response videos got the most
you know furious thing things were met
and the weirdest thing was people start
to say this is political
likewise Adam ruins everything getting
political Mike I don't know what the
hell they're talking about this is I
have no idea
I have no idea it's political alphas and
betas are no political I mean that's
what people were saying I guess I guess
you know for some people it's become
that but because they've see it as part
of like I don't their whatever argument
they're in their head they're having
about feminism or something like but to
me I'm just like guys in dating right in
life like this is not a real concept if
you want to say I'm gonna be confident
tomorrow I'm not gonna tell you that's
not gonna help you out you know and you
know I am a little bit reticent to make
like a broad conclusion about
evolutionary psychology right but I can
tell you again go talk to any
anthropologist any biologist any you
know sociologist is there such a thing
as alpha males in humans and the
strictest scientific sense of the word
in this industry yeah exactly
and I think they're looking at in terms
of like winners and losers pushovers and
people who get the job done you know
confident people versus people are not
confident but I think you're correct and
I think obviously humans operate on a
giant spectrum and if you start going
around saying alpha and beta and that
the idea that all alphas are the same or
all betas are the same it's just as
ridiculous as the idea of all the
Democrats are the same it becomes an
ideology exactly Pro male ideology and I
have the biggest problem with like
overconfident men's rights guys yeah cuz
I'm like listen we have all the rights
yeah I had a whole bit about it it was
like it's like divorce laws and that's
it
everything else is stacked in our favor
yes fucking chill out you're making us
look bad and the problems that men have
are different than the problems those
guys think men have right so for
instance we did a segment on stereo weed
an episode on stereotypes called Adam
ruins a sitcom where we talked about
different you know we talked about
stereotypes via you know sort of a
cheesy 80s sitcom ahead of law
stereotypes in it so you got the
stereotypical black kid you got the
stereo go asian kid
give the stereo a neighbor outwards HOV
gay never know we didn't do that well
there's only three acts on the show you
know what I mean I wish we could on that
and
and women and all sorts of things but we
and we had a stereotypical dad you know
like a home improvement type dad you
know and what we talked about is like
those there are ways that men are being
harmed by the sort of narrow idea of
what a man is you know for instance men
have a very high suicide rate right
and specifically loneliness is a health
problem for men for like older men like
take my dad right my dad's about 65 he
doesn't have a friend you know I hope he
doesn't hear this but you know yeah like
he has like work colleagues
he's got my mom you know he's got me
he's got I'm sure he's got people he's
friendly with you know I mean but isn't
have a best friend you know who doesn't
who comes over to watch you know the Red
Sox with him thanks terrified yeah and
the thing is loneliness is associated
with early death you know and with
disease right and like when you look at
the way that we bring up men men are
socialized to not have close
relationships with each other you know
really yeah well like we talked about
from an early age we talked about this
so briefly on the show but we could have
gone into a whole episode on it from an
early age
researchers have found this that little
boys when they're very young are very
close with form very close friendships
that are physical friendship they hug
you know they'll kiss they'll you notice
um that you know what I mean don't have
physical close friendships like that and
then they reach an age where that starts
to become not okay right where it
becomes oh that's not how boys act right
and girls are still doing that with
their friends they're still holding
hands with their friends you know
there's still you know having close
relationships like that and boys start
to start to be a little bit of a
distance you know and you know it's easy
to say well when you're a teenager
that's because the stigma against being
gay and like we don't want to appear gay
but it happens even younger than like
kids would even have a notion of that
you know so it really seems to be a deep
down way that we bring up boys of like
hey don't get too close to each other
you know what I mean that's a little
weird it's just a little weird for boys
to do that you know and we do that we do
it from a young age is very subtle and
very subtle but it's universal I mean in
America it seems to be and you know I
yeah I've even felt that myself like
I've often had an easier time having
close close relationships with women
rather than men yeah as friendships yeah
as friendships yeah man I don't just in
terms of who I talk about my
relationships and stuff you have good
friendships with women mostly that are
comics but almost all my good friends
are guys a lot of good friends I mean
you're lucky if that's the case I
certainly am but I've had a little bit
of distance from your male friends you
know of like not being of not getting
really into it emotionally you know look
if you don't feel that way that's fine I
felt that myself my and I'm Chad we're
results in some people villas me you
felt it some people feel it'll be yeah I
don't experience that and I'm you know
most of my friends that I know have good
male friends and they're pretty tight
with people well when the point is that
like there is a trend especially in
older age right anybody whether it's a
male or female when you get older and
you don't have any friends that's about
saying well so demographically we know
that that happens to men more than women
right then man my dad's age is more
likely to have less friends than a woman
my mom's age you know why I mean I think
that's one of those things where I would
hesitate to make a big conclusion but I
mean I would say I think we can draw a
link between that and you know that men
are sort of like socialized to not have
these close friendships but so that is a
serious problem that men have that men
face right another one we talk about is
stuff like you know drinking and smoking
for instance those are behaviors that
are much more pushed on me you know
those are much more advertised towards
men right and those are dangerous
right those will like hurt you
physically and can lead to an early
death right those are those can lead to
bad health outcomes and so those are
things that men face that are different
than the challenges that women face and
can result in bad health outcomes for us
you know and it's so funny how the sort
of like men's rights people you know
they're they don't talk about that stuff
quite as much they talk about you know
violence and and you know people being
hurt at work and stuff like that like
man having dangerous occupations and
that's and that stuff true is true as
well but like these are the more subtle
ways that you know men are
are hurt by the sort of narrow
expectations of what a man is that we
put on men hey men are like this you
should be like this you know and some of
those things hurt men do you think we
still do that though did ya still put
narrow expectations on what man I
totally I totally do I think we might be
lucky here in LA you know because we can
sort of like live any way that we choose
I mean you clearly live exactly how you
want to live which is great you know and
and I get to as well but I think that
you know we're we're lucky and that
we're so self actualized you know what I
mean that that maybe we face a little
bit less pressure than then you know
your average Joe across the country yeah
but I don't know of anyone who's putting
pressure on men to not be friendly with
other men that seems so ridiculous to me
didn't deny camaraderie obviously in the
military it's a huge aspect of military
service is the Brotherhood yeah that
these guys form with each other and
that's about you know if you want to
talk about traditional male values
that's about as manly a thing as a
person can do right serve their country
very much so
but are like men for instance and
courage to you know be emotionally
vulnerable with with their friends for
instance like I think that's something
that's like don't do it they're gonna
bring it up when you argue there's a
level of intimacy that were that were
like and and that sort of intimacy is
what leads to long friendships you know
that really really lasts right it's a
balancing act I think because I think
there's there is intimacy and then
there's also guys who are just being a
bitch things are real ladies be able to
be intimate and to be vulnerable and
explain how you feel but then sometimes
you shouldn't be just fucking
complaining about things you figure your
life out and man the fuck up and go do
something and it's not necessarily you
being emotionally vulnerable as you like
to say it in such a normalizing way it
might it might just be being a bitch
well - you don't think that when you say
that you put a little pressure on on men
at all - yes I put pressure on man yeah
well there
maybe you are maybe you're the one
putting a little pressure yes they need
some pressure I think most men need just
a little bit of a motivational shove in
the general direction of success and
happiness and a lot of that is
overcoming laziness and implying or
applying some discipline to your life I
think those things are manly attributes
that turn out to actually be good for
you you know I think there's a lot of I
don't disagree with you about about some
of those aspects being good for you let
me just give one of their example and
I'm blanking on the name of this podcast
I can I can look it up if you want but a
very wonderful podcast about philosophy
but last far as this know I love
philosophize this it's a great one here
I'll look up what it was as I'm talking
about it but really wonderful podcast
where they were talking to this guy who
was in the military and has PTSD right
and he was talking about how the idea of
be a man right was just a phrase that he
would hear a lot in the military right
and oh it's called hyphenation is the
name of the podcast and there's an
episode called be a man - really
wonderful podcast about philosophy and
it's talking about that idea of be a man
right what does that mean in in the
military and look I'm just repeating
what's in the pocket I have no military
experience myself I don't want to claim
to but and you know that means sort of
like overcome adversity right don't
complain too much right if you have a
problem solve it yourself kind of thing
right and he talked about and they also
talked with medical professionals who
said the same thing that that idea can
doesn't give men the tools they need to
deal with PTSD right and can actually
exacerbate PTSD because it means that
they're not trained how to reach out for
help you have those problems no I
couldn't and so in situation I think oh
yeah it's a different example of just a
way that that sort of narrow idea be a
man being a man means this a real man
would do this right mm-hmm that does
that works in some situations maybe that
works when you're you know in a foxhole
right it doesn't work so well when
you're out of it right and so that's a
narrow idea that can lead to a bad
outcome sure but that's basically what
we were just saying that you know you
should be emotionally vulnerable and
know how to express yourself with your
friends and be honest
about how you feel about things but you
also should know when you're being a
bitch both of those things real fair
fair enough if you're on a hike with a
friend and he has to stop every five
minutes because his foot hurts like come
on man just fucking walk you're walking
fine I completely no absolutely agree I
don't think this is worth it
I mean this is not what I had in mind I
started hooking guys beat a bitch right
yeah yeah yeah he needs to man the fuck
up right but let me but I tend to say
man the fuck up because it was a woman
what would you say you'd say toughen up
just soldier on would you say well I
don't think that the reason I'm hesitant
to use that word is I don't think that
being tough is exclusively a male right
that's why I said if you're a woman what
would you say we'd say tough enough yeah
in the same situation you got to toughen
up yeah yeah with it
yeah yeah yeah press on yeah but men
like the we like to equate that to one
of our best attributes being a fucking
man yes I'm a fucking what what if
you're what what if you're on that walk
with on that hike with a friend you know
and your friend is legit afraid of hikes
I've been on in front I don't know hikes
with sorry I haven't said hikes heights
went on a hike I went on a hike with a
friend my friend had we were in Zion
National Park which has some very narrow
that's right Utah yeah my friend had had
a panic attack right because because of
the hike and it was it was you know and
that's legit right and thank God he was
able he felt able to share it with me
right but if we you know so that's so
that's the balancing act of creating an
environment where you're not hey yeah
don't complain about your foot but hey
if you're really in distress like you
can share that with me and some men feel
that they can't do that and I remember
when I was younger you know feeling well
I want to I really have this problem but
I can't express that to my friends
because they're gonna make fun of me
right and that sucks and so my goal is
to and what that segment that we did
about manliness was about was saying hey
if you if you're a man and being a man
to you means you know being confident
being assertive and stuff like that
great qualities not bad qualities at all
right but we want to expand the notion
of manliness so it includes all the
four ways that one can be a man right
that that is it's as wide as possible
right so you guys like the progress you
cut it down the expression manliness
right that's the problem cuz manliness
like instantly becomes handsome
aggressive you know muscular cultural
idea womanliness is more like soft and
kind yeah you know you don't think of it
sexually right when you see you think of
womanliness isn't really a word that's
used but if it was yeah womanly that
those are there cultural ideas that we
associated with those things right but I
so so let me just give you my example I
personally I love taking care of other
people
right with me and my me and my
girlfriend we be together 10 years one
of the main things I love to do in our
relationship is I really like cooking
for her
you know what I mean I like taking care
of her that's like something that I
enjoy right that's the part of my
manliness that's like how I am a man you
know what I mean right
feels good food and you can it down and
yeah do something for and cook for you
can associate it with yep providing goes
back to that you know classic sort of
Matt you know manly value I'm not even
saying in that sense yeah there's
nothing wrong with that word but in that
sense you you want to give ya executive
and that's not a value that I was
brought up with of like that's a manly
thing to do right is to like be kind and
be nurturing you know what I mean but
it's something that I really that that
really means a lot to me yeah well it
wasn't what I was brought up with and so
to me it's important to like expand you
know my notion of what it was really a
big deal for me to like realize that
that was part of what being a man was to
me and I noticed that like you know for
instance like let's just take the
example of like you know kids
entertainment like growing up you know
like kids cartoons and stuff like that
like the female characters are the ones
who are taking care of other people and
the male characters are the ones who are
kicking ass right and I like kicking ass
sometimes too but I realized at one
point I was like oh I didn't have like
models of that as a kid of like here's a
man
who takes care of other people
emotionally or you know or in a caring
way you know it's a phil does I see what
you saying yeah yeah I mean whenever you
have a label especially a narrow label
it's a problem you know and I think the
the idea of Manliness or like what it
entails and the problems that people
would have about that on the outside
it's almost always problems that are
being imposed on them like with the
ideas that are being opposed on them or
people who don't like the way they live
you don't like who they are or want to
mock who they are how they live so
someone's too emotional if someone's too
introverted instead of celebrating that
or that guy's different
cool yeah instead of that it's the bully
yeah mocking and and shitting on them
the jock type behavior yeah we
associated with being the negative
aspect of masculinity total toxic
masculinity is which is the phrase that
gets tossed around yeah but I think this
is you know this is just shitty humans I
agree you know I mean that's really
where the problem and it's not specific
to it's not specific to men right it's
everybody but let me give you one more
example just to get back to what you're
talking about about body type and what
people are attracted to I read this
wonderful advice column it's this guy
who this guy doesn't advise it's got a
kind of silly names doctor nerd love but
he does a really good a vise column and
this dude wrote in and said hey I'm with
a woman she's you know a little bit
bigger of a gal you know then I've dated
in the past I really am into her she's
so cool but she's not my type I'm not
normally into women like this and that
bothers me that she's not my type right
even though I'm into her so much she's
not my type what do I do about this
she's not my type and I loved this guy's
answer he wrote back and he said dude
she's your fucking type you like her
right you're into her you think she's a
sexy woman right the problem is you were
brought up in a world where it's not
okay for men don't like women like that
it's not okay to like women who are her
size and you've you've ingested at your
whole life and now
you're hating yourself because you were
told something that about what's okay
for you to like and what's not okay for
you to like and I really related to that
you know because I remember feeling that
way about girls I dated like hold on a
sec oh I'm into her so much but oh wait
is she not
is she not like attractive right am I
wrong to be dating her because she
doesn't fit what I you know the sort of
like set of parameters for what an
attractive woman is right and so when
you talk about what people say that what
people say they're attractive if you ask
any woman wouldn't she say she's
attracted this kind of man if you ask
any man what she said she's attracted
that kind of woman
yeah they might say that right but deep
down do they maybe have a desire that is
not being you know that they've been
told is wrong their whole lives right I
really related to that I was like man
that is really a good point I have been
told that my whole life and it has I've
allowed it to control who I'm attracted
to to a certain extent you know and
that's a mental prison that I want to
get out of you know and you know now I
have the benefit I'm a little bit older
you know and I feel like I'm in less
mental prisons than I used to be I feel
like you're in no mental prisons at all
at all I feel like a lot of your
listeners you know I have broken out of
them you know but especially I think
back about like when I was 16 years old
and yeah I you know you're swimming in
that shit and you don't know to question
it yet a lot of the time and that's what
our show is about is getting people to
question those assumptions and those
things that you're being told without
even realizing you're being told them
but there is a problem with young men
and their identities like them wanting
other people to think them as cool yeah
them as cool think of them as someone
who's successful or someone who's doing
well that's a weird safe thing to say
you know I'm I'm really into her but
she's not my type but you know the
problem there seems to in my mind in my
estimation seems this guy's worry too
much about his identity yeah and instead
of just being who he is exactly worried
about his identity and and that's a
really tough thing to get over and
that's what we were trying to help
people get over in that episode but you
know when I think about in my you know
when I was getting started in comedy am
I in my 20s you know the amount of time
I spent worrying before I went onstage
about how what I was going to say it was
going to come off it was if it was going
to be cool
or if I get made fun of by the other
guys in my comedy group about like the
other people at the open mic you know
really like I did I did just come up in
alt rooms
yeah the meanest motherfucker fucking
are those super nerds
like a super progressive fucking mean do
so goddamn socially vicious yeah no
especially just at the open mics in New
York City you know it was a real LA to
say you know yeah cuz they're there
there's no like organization I didn't I
never set foot in a club because I was
like I don't want to deal with anybody
at the club thinking oh I'm trying to
get a spot or whatever I was like I'm
just doing bar shows open mic stuff like
that and yeah there's no rules so it's
just social enforcement and it's just
people being like I'm the big dog like
and people would like cross their arms
during other people's sets or like say
shit and like it really fucking sucked
and the only way I don't give a shit
about what any of these motherfuckers
think yeah you know and I know I'm gonna
identify the people who I think are
doing good work and who I think are
funny and then hopefully they laugh at
me too I'm gonna focus on that but but
you should look at the people that are
crossing their arms with amusement
because all those young fools yeah
you're fools I know what you're doing
you just throw in poison at people for
no reason
totally you know okay especially in open
mic nights and those kind of shows those
bar shows people are just developing
yeah you know you're watching little
babies run around and nursery oh yeah
what they're trying to do with the how
many babies those people are trying to
do is they're trying to say well I know
the difference between good and bad and
that's one of the reasons I'm good and
so on I say that you're bad exactly
that's bullshit it's bullshit yeah and a
lot of them aren't funny it's a real
part of the problem they're trying to
enforce a narrow band of comedy because
they think they can operate inside those
parameters yeah but if they wanted to go
on stage the Comedy Store after Joey
Diaz they'd burst in the playing is not
that good I know you think you have a
point but what you're saying is not your
art is not that way no you listen to the
Bill burr podcast and you think that
makes you
everybody but the number of people who
billboard wouldn't do it like that or
whatever like that kind of thing is like
so so off the off the charts of energy
you know it really is and the best the
best energy in these small groups the
best way to use your energy is to
appreciate good work and recognize bad
work and recognize maybe you have some
of that aspect totally in yourself some
some aspects of bad work in your own act
and maybe you should trim it out and
look at yourself objectively the way
you're looking at this person but the
whole cross your arms and let's
someone's stealing or doing something
racist or clearly fucked up socially you
know like what do you care yeah they
just did you suck you suck too bro yeah
open might get 11 p.m. three hours to do
three minutes you know like your first
couple years on stage was terrible I
want to go back and hug everyone who's
ever in the audience and say I'm sorry I
didn't mean to put you through whatever
the fuck I did up there that 10 minutes
of nonsense I'm sorry you know one time
what I was doing open mics I was doing
husband three open mics a night in New
York you know and I've kind of missed
that it was like really fun it's like
going to the gym you know it's like
bouncing around bump a bump a bump but
you know you really get used to it and
there was one night I can't remember why
the hell this happened but my girlfriend
and her friend and they're both
cartoonists my girl my girlfriend is a
incredible cartoonist on her name's Lisa
Hanawalt and so she's funny you know
these are funny people for some reason
they're like we want to come to the open
mic at the creaking cave in New York I
was like you do okay here we go
and they sat there and they were like we
sat in the front row and they were like
their their hands were like covering
their eyes they were like oh like every
single person what is he doing this
person what were they thinking like they
were thing is just like the worst freak
show to them yeah and I was like yeah I
do this every single like everything
that every shitty mistake or every weird
thing that every person did that I was
totally like blank to that I had seen a
million times they were like shocked by
what was caught on that stage
and it made me really enjoy going to
those mics again because it made me see
for the first time you know like made me
fresh again - like how fucking weird
I'll miss open mic so much because it's
such a beautiful disaster right because
you're right every single person that
goes up on an open mic is sweating
basically they're doing like they're
like endurance training like they're
doing something that is physically
uncomfortable even socially terrible and
they're bad at it and they're just doing
it over and over again until they get
used to it so that they can just go up
on stage without flop sweating you know
that like everyone just watching a
hundred people in a row have panic
attacks basically and people are just
being there weird fucking selves and you
see a lot of nonsense and then you see a
lot of people worry like goddamn that
person is there is a core there and
they're gonna be really fucking funny
and I love the fact that I know so many
people from those days we've just all
grown up together and now they're all
right in sitcoms or they're doing you
know I met Michelle wolf our first week
doing open mics it was so cool we met
like I was like my second open mic and
it was like her third open mic and we
saw each other at her and a couple
friends I was like you guys are funny
you're funny and she was like eh we're
gonna sew their mic you want to come yep
let's go
and then I've known her ever since and
then like to see her do that Whitehorse
Corps White House Correspondents Dinner
it was like I just felt all that history
all at once I was like this is fucking
amazing you know I was so what did you
think when the president was tweeting at
her that's what a comics supposed to do
you know like the way that she pissed
people off that was such a beautiful
that was such a beautiful moment and I
loved it she was so fucking funny and
great writing - it was great funny shit
yeah she wrote it a bunch of our friends
from those days Anthony DeVito Greg
Stone Dan st. Germain I believe helped
her write jokes and yeah they were
really funny
and guess what like the crowd didn't
want comedy apparently but they got one
of the best comics in the country you
know who's like on that she's in her
prime right now and she fucking tore it
up she did her job better than they
wanted and they got pissed off about it
and it was they got
it was like a three-day news cycle of
how much but everybody hated her where
there didn't get pissed off some of they
were like tweeting like Maggie Haberman
for the New York Times was tweeting like
oh I feel bad for you know Sarah
Huckabee like for though for the you
know light jab that she got about her
eye makeup was breathing it was so
nothing and they were talking about what
they say she the parents shamed she
appearance she was the word they were
looking yeah yeah I forget what it was
and she she got off flight everybody got
off flight yes great
people forget when Colbert did that ten
years earlier and he was a applauded for
it the people in the room hated that too
if you go back watch that video he gets
no laughs when he's making fun of bush
it's an almost famous like comedy
appearances ever right and he got zero
laughs in the room it's dead quiet it's
bizarre if you watch it and then a year
later it was a bear he's the master he
did it done it uh that was one of the
big moments for comedy getting serious
and like satire getting that was a
breakout for him and like the political
hacks in the room can't take it cuz they
don't I don't know why they book comics
cuz they do not want comedy right and
that's why they I guess they're you know
they're not gonna book comedy anymore
but here's an interesting cat man yes
yes a bunch of things rolled up into one
because he's a he's a legitimate
Catholic like yeah really Catholic yeah
despite all the scandals and kid fuckin
and all the craziness and then on top of
that he's this character but now he's
not the character anymore
no now he's like a guy who's not totally
playing the character but the character
comes in and out like little shadows yes
it does it's like what are you what's
your real thoughts on things cuz I know
you as Colbert ya know you from The
Colbert Report this hilarious fake
Republican guy yeah and now I'm seeing
him I'm not sure what's going on here
man yeah I mean he's well and when
you're put when you're in late night you
know I play character on my show too
that's like a heightened version of
myself that's developed it's like a very
extra nerdy it's almost like me as
pee-wee Herman a little bit like it's
it's uh towards me as my younger self
it's like very socially awkward I'm a
lucky sorry like it's a lot of up there
you know yeah and it's different than
what I do onstage
and you know I can only imagine even
though he's still he's like his big
thing for late night was like I'm gonna
be myself I'm not the character anymore
you still build a little bit of a
character for yourself you know yeah
well also with him it's like that's what
brought him to the dance yeah the reason
why you there's like what what kind of
meetings that they have with him yeah
what are we gonna do here we're gonna
hide this straight so bear I heard him
say once he only said this in one
interview but he was like we're
basically creating a new character for
late-night and so he had the same
writers from from The Colbert Report and
so he was like we're sort of like
creating a new character how does this
character work but I gotta say the old
show I mean he's he's great the old show
was probably the best performance ever
made by a single late-night comic
because the way that heat when I watch
it now if I go back and watch clips I'm
like the way he would do like three or
four fast little turns you know you know
single line where it would like mean one
thing but there'd be some subtext and he
would flip around and he would do it
like it was like watching like a figure
skater do triple axels you know like
watching him do that it was it was
really impressive
I'd like the guy don't get me wrong but
I like him more on Colbert Report and I
like him as a late-night talk show host
but I think I think that's also my
prejudice against that format I'm like
you guys just saw what Jack Paar did and
kept going totally it's the same goddamn
thing but I understand why he couldn't
do the cold but he did that show off
like ten years you know like you can't
you can't do that was a limited thing
for him you know like he had that
character and so he could only do what
was in the box that character and so
he's looking to do more and and I get it
I also feel like man that Colbert Report
is more interesting than the late-night
show to me as a comic and as a comedy
writing fan well for sure because the
late-night shows are just promotion
shows that's all they are all they are
is hey Adam I hear you have a book out
hey - about your new show here's our ten
minutes of comedy before that and then
we do that it's like it's it's basically
like a version of a commercial and the
and the nightly thing is a prison you
know because you can only talk about
what happened that day
so the smartest thing that you know John
Oliver right he was up for The Daily
Show he wanted to do the daily show he
was Jon Stewart's pick for The Daily
Show they said this in the oral history
book of The Daily Show
and then Comedy Central didn't close the
deal with Oliver and HBO came and said
you want to do a show instead you know
and Jon Stewart was like oh right go
with God that's what John Oliver did
instead so we're living in that
alternate reality from John Oliver
hosting The Daily Show right and so the
smartest thing Oliver did was do weekly
and not daily because it lets him go
wider right if he was doing daily he
would have to just talk about what
happened that day you don't have that
much you don't guess what you can't have
as much of a complete thought in 24
hours or in realistically the six hours
you have between when you show up and
when you tape the show right you can't
say as much you it's it's harder and so
being on that you know weekly schedule
and he's only doing 30-something shows a
year right because they have hiatuses
that's what allows them to have those
big long complete thoughts that everyone
likes so much you know is ransom yeah
intelligent takes those issues in
pointing out Apocrypha yeah great our
show it takes us we it takes us like
three or four months to write an episode
like we're writing 16 at once but like
you know that's how long we have to
think about it and so we're able to take
twists and turns you know we we go into
it thinking this is going to be our
angle and then we're diving into the
research we have a wonderful research
staff and they say actually this is the
more interesting part of the story and
then we are have the time to go chase it
that way instead right whereas if we
were on a daily schedule oh shit well we
don't have time to pivot because we got
a show to make right you ever feel time
constraints like in terms of like the
subject matter the totally matters like
very very involved yeah I mean we try to
do the most difficult topics we can't
you know we don't hold back from
anything but the only constraint that we
have is that the show we've got 21
minutes and then in but we've got
commercials so we can only talk about
some four six minutes before we have to
move on right and so that's the that's
the only limitation that we have like
the network will let us do anything
we've been on the show for food on the
network for four years the only time you
ever killed the show was we want to do
something about the n-c-double-a about
how the n-c-double-a shouldn't kill that
shouldn't kill sir is how it should pay
athletes right well the quality should
thank you
yeah we talk about that all the time
right yeah it is one of the craziest
fucking scams in all of money let
college sports or it's unbeliev they're
making so much money off those kids when
you watch those things every single
person's
paid every note everybody's getting pace
it guy best players the guy bringing
water to the announcers are getting paid
except for the players right so grand
the guy who literally I'm blanking on
his name but the guy who created this
system right who like formed the NCAA
later when he left he compared it to
Plantation slavery he was like this is
like slavery what I invented you know
there's no justification for it at all
it is bananas we want to do that topic
for a college episode we pitched that to
truTV
you know what airs on truTV every March
March March Madness they said no they
said they said and here's here's how I
live with myself I I say look I will
never take a no until it's the only
absolute answer I can get so they said
no I say I really want to do it tell me
no again you know they told me no again
I was like if the president of the
network tells me no then I'm not doing
it and the president of Network told me
no okay that's the guy who I could write
it and he could kill the episode so I
shouldn't have NC double-a on you're
worried about they're worried about
pissing off not yeah pissing off those
money-grubbing thieves really man those
athletic kids I'm with all these month
people are paying money to see those
fucking kids that shit drives me crazy
yeah exploiting of young athletes in
college zonkers it is one of the ones
that drives me them because I got into
it with Joey Diaz who explained to me
because Joey used to be a bookie and he
really understands gambling he was
explaining to me how much money gets
donated to these schools yeah by people
who used to go to them heels it's insane
yeah he said and most of it is based on
the performance that the school has in
the college sports yeah these people who
are you know I'm a fucking you know blah
blah blah I went to school there and I'm
there too I died I fucking go team yes
assholes throw shit tons of money and
there's thousands of them all throughout
history yeah years and years guys have
been donating for 25 fucking years yep
and when they were team wins a
championship they give him a bonus more
ass
but who doesn't get the money is the
killer fucking people who play the game
all they have to do so a well if you get
through here you're gonna do
and then you get to go to pro sports
yeah how many of them make it especially
in football almost none almost no but
look at it what are the numbers what is
it like I wonder what the numbers are
guys who sign up for college football
who make it first of all with a body
that's functional yeah after four years
of 600 fucking pound dudes slamming yeah
that big but Johnny I would slam it into
you we did a we did an episode on
football and the concussion time it's
not just concussions right it's like
just the little hits right it's just the
routine tackles you know I mean what
happens every single time you do that
your brain you guys think of it this way
your brain is riding your your skull is
the car your brain is a passenger your
brain doesn't have a seat belt right
every time you run into somebody boom
your brain slides forward a little bit
because it's not wearing a seat belt
bumps into the front of your skull and
bounces back right and even if that
doesn't cause a concussion it causes a
little a little hurt every single time
right and so you can never get a
concussion do that over and over and
over again and you're gonna end up with
CTE yeah of trauma happens in soccer
players yeah it's a negation in soccer
and those kids are those kids are
hurting themselves
you know Jamie wrote here in football
out of 70 3557 NCAA positions
approximate number who are draft
eligible is down to 16 thousand three
hundred forty six and now down to draft
picks
it's 256 so we're 256 out of 73,000 make
it two draft picks 1.6 percent make it
from the NCAA to the majors 1.6 percent
ridiculous some NCAA two major pro 1.6
percent that is fucking crazy and let's
be honest these kids are not getting the
education suppose baseball is almost 10
percent weight more teams with thick
minors and all like I'm not crazy though
that's wild
so it's 10 percent that's weird well
that's oh that's 10% of from draft
eligible to drafted Oh major but it's
not even the participants because look
that's that's 35 K 7-7 K our draft
eligible and then seven join a seven are
drafted right but look how low the
number is in terms of baseball
participants versus football
laughs yes than half and yet they have
way higher percentage this is our
writings also so we look at charts also
the thing is like with baseball you
don't get hit right yeah unless you get
hit by a ball most of the time your
injuries just from running or sliding
and stuff like that yeah yeah well you
can get yeah you can get hit in the head
with a baseball yeah it's so much safer
yeah if I had a kid and the kid was
thinking like baseball football or
basketball I'm like well take that
football out of the fucking equation you
got two choices
yeah cuz don't do it just don't do it
you're not gonna make it no the very few
people that make it out of there without
like serious injury it's like it's not
worth it yeah it's just not especially
if you look at that seventy-five
thousand number if you look at for how
many kids are playing in the NCAA now
think about how many kids are playing
high school football I don't know the
number but it's got to be 10 times that
right he's showing this to me this kid
is gonna be he's the Heisman Trophy
winner and he already has been drafted
to the Major League Baseball but he's
also projected to potentially be in the
top five NFL picks whoa there's like a
big discussion on what should he do it's
up to him obviously but players like
Deion Sanders who have been in both
leagues and have done both at the same
time is like play baseball
yeah well that's better for your life
because you're less you're less likely
to like you have brain damage do you
ever talk to a fucking baseball player
that's retired so I'm talking to a
regular person yes that wants to be the
quarterback though you know yeah well
basketball player those guys clearly
have the best of it like out of all the
major sports basketball players because
they I don't know about that because
that's a much more grueling schedule
physically first of all you're running
and shooting every night you're
sprinting you're doing all these
different things baseball is so much
more leisurely but the celebrity aspect
of basketball is so huge and like an
astronaut baseball's gigantic yeah yeah
a rod and it's still theirs yeah but 510
min max 10 guys on the court and if you
do anything cameras right on your face
yeah baseball this was pointed out to me
the website Deadspin did this thing
where they were like pointing out the
problem with baseball today they went
around they asked people hey can you
name what's the most famous baseball
player that you could name and people
are like Derek Jeter a-rod the
papi Manny you know Manny is retired
guys and if you ask people they could
MIT if they're a baseball fan they'd say
someone from my team or maybe they'd say
Mike Trout or they'd say well it hasn't
the Yankees right but there is no a rod
Jeter like level celebrity right now
what happened I don't know exactly
I can steroids giving back the steroids
they're not talking about fighting we're
talking about base well give them the
steroid worry about that stupid game is
when someone hits the ball does the
steroids make them hit the ball better
yes
okay well give it to them yeah fuck are
you guys doing testing for that
performance-enhancing drugs man are the
craziest the debate about that we've
never done this on the show because I so
I'm not like you should have fully boned
up I would like to I've thought about in
the past because because the the
divisions it's like the rest of the drug
war right the divisions we make between
the things that are acceptable and not
acceptable are so arbitrary right so the
example I always use is like okay why
don't why don't we like it
performance-enhancing drugs not everyone
has access to them so they're unfair
right they're bad for your health
and we think they're unnatural right
okay so yeah yeah well that's not the
reason why we think they're right but
boats also but there's some drugs you
can take that aren't cheating right like
no good take advantage is the reason why
it's cheating
that's the primary reason so here so let
me give you a counter example for
runners right for endurance athletes
like me I like running I'm a shitty
runner but I like it I think it's a fun
sport so I followed a little bit so
runners endurance you know the big thing
is like how much your how much oxygen
your blood can hold right if you train
at a high altitude then you can increase
that right so there are these runners
the American runners right they live at
a high altitude they live super high up
you know in Colorado or whatever right
and then when they're not there they
train there all year round they buy a
place there and then when they're not
there when they're competing somewhere
else they sleep in a chamber that
simulates low altitude right how is that
not the same thing as taking a
performance-enhancing drug like they
they you know that's not a it's not
illegal to do that right it's unnatural
right it is an unfair advantage because
not everybody can afford one of those
chambers and I'm not gonna say it's bad
for your health
I don't know but it certainly as weird
for your
body has taken a drug I would think
right so why it's not alive because it's
only like living at altitude yes it's
really just simulates low altitude it's
not like taking just you know EPO which
would be the drug that would simulate
that which I've got recent experience
with not personally but because the UFC
just had one of its champions stripped
because of testing positive for EPO and
then we're just finding out now they
don't test for EPO and everybody hmm
that it's very expensive and so they do
it based on the athletes biological
passport and what they think they're
changing variables that you know for
whatever reason it triggers their their
interest yeah they start testing
additionally it's a big deal so it's a
it's a serious drug I mean it's a
serious endurance drug that also has
like some serious health complications
people have died from taking it young
guys in their 20s in yeah cycling have
gotten strokes and died from EPO that's
yet but there's no health negative
effects of sleeping at altitude it's
just couldn't you afford to live there
can you grab route your life no if you
can't yeah it's an advantage for that
person over you so I'm just saying we
have a we have sort of an ARB like yeah
it's sort of an arbitrary we're we're
drawing the lines is not consistent you
know everyone that is a big one that in
terms of the impact on sit is a big one
you're actually saying now that they
think the best best course of strategy
is to train at low altitude and then
sleep at high altitude they think that
when you train at low altitude you have
more output so you're putting in more
repetitions because you get more oxygen
so you have more work yeah then you get
the same effect
by living at out so you get you get up
there and sleep and you don't have to
train up there and if you train up there
it's actually slightly less value hunt
than training it low out to and staying
up there damn because whatever I'm
whenever I'm staying somewhere high out
to live it like I just did a weekend in
Denver yeah and I was like going on a
run up there and it was like obviously
torture compared to like being here in
LA but I was like oh I'm getting strong
because I'm running at high altitude
that's not true that really fucks with
me
well you just really know it's work it
will help you yeah but it's if you are
an at like athletes or were literally
working for one or two percent of an
advantage occasional yeah on many
occasions when you are living at high
altitude and training at sea level they
think that that gives you a slight
advantage yeah cuz you can put more work
in especially for fighters they think
that skill work and repetitions and
drilling is one of the most important
aspects of it and you can just simply
get in more repetitions yeah and get in
more drills hmm yeah but they you know
again though you're right because this
is sort of a performance-enhancing thing
you're not just living and just being
yourself and then showing up and
competing yeah you are engaging in this
activity that significantly raises your
red blood cells significantly raises
your oxygen capacity changes your cardio
yeah your vo2 max changes yeah here's
here's the word that it's just this
there's this weird idea in sports and
look you know shit a lot more about
athletics than I do it's not my it's not
my real forte but I do you know I do
enjoy and the thing that's always weird
to me is that we have this idea that
like there's some kind of level playing
field that there's like baseline human
that we can just say well you gotta be
at the baseline right and humans are so
variable you're always gonna find these
weird cases and when you try to
adjudicate it gets really weird like do
you know about you know caster Semenya
you know she is no oh no I do know this
story this story pisses me off so much
so she's a marathon a marathon right
she's a middle distance runner
I believe she's South the South African
she's like the best in the world at the
200 meters you know I actually got to
see her because my I went to the
Prefontaine Classic in Eugene Oregon
with my dad to like watch the big track
meet you know best in the world people
this is like a Olympics you know not
qualifier but it's like the Olympics
calabria athletes saw her she's
incredible just like one of the best in
the world she's got a she her whole life
has faced accusations that she that her
that she's a man basically because she
has like an elevated level of
testosterone this is her natural body
right and so she's had to deal with
people saying oh we got a we got to do
do a sex check on you which is
humiliating and like also completely
unscientific
you know like what what are they going
to do and like a second one look at her
genitals well here's the weird thing man
is that yeah they want to look at their
genitals first of all which is
humiliating to have that happen if
you're an athlete any people have to be
in the room yeah
this is the problem right how do you
judicata that right and also there's
such a thing I don't know anything about
her personal situation right there's
such a thing as intersex people right
where when you look at the generals you
can't take it I can just look at their
Junction who can tell right this is a
real phenomena like 1% of people are
intersex right I was speaking off the
top my head but it's higher than you
think you know it's definitely it's a
nonzero number of people right intersex
people are a real thing it's a real
thing and so so but so she got past that
right they stopped challenging whether
she was like a man or a woman they did a
glamazon test on her
I think you might be right yeah but so
she's had to deal with that that's not
fair right she's just a liar she's a
physical outlet as a physical outlier
and now the IAAF which is the
organization that runs all tits like
fifa for track right they run all track
they have tried to put forward a rule I
don't know what the status is right now
because it's being challenged but they
try to put forward a rule that says if
you have a testosterone level over a
certain amount you have to take a
hormone changing clothes to change your
hormones and she's gonna fall under that
and so they literally want to change the
body that she was born with because
they're saying your body is unfair to
her how is that right that's crazy it's
really really fucked up and and so the
thing is when we make those decisions
about what's fair and what's not fair
there's no baseline human is always a
value judgment and when we're excluding
some people that's almost all we always
need to look at that and say are we
discriminating they're definitely
discriminating against Castro so mania
and is this the IOC that's what it's
doing this notice IAF which is the IOC
is the Olympics IAF the Olympics aren't
doing this so they don't have an issue
with her I don't know what the Olympic
policy is the Olympics is fucked up we
do hope so in the Olympics the Olympics
is fucked up in a lot of ways too it's
another dirty dirty dirty but incredibly
in terms of dollars off those athletes
who work for free we had this dude on a
shotput guy who gold medalist in the
shotput he was like the year I had a
gold medal I was not able to pay my
bills
and he is literally trying to like
unionize the athletes which is very hard
right because there's new athletes every
four years but yeah those athletes are
not paid Plus no one's gonna listen to
the guy who throws the heavy rope yeah I
got a gold medal for the hockey do you
hook a cannonball
oh you throw a rock weird that you can't
make a living throwing rocks dude sorry
people watch those people watch those
sports you know most fucked up things
when they let the NBA play yeah let the
NBA play yeah poor Eastern Bloc nations
yeah got these fucking you know super
athletes who a professional American and
they literally like all players for the
for the biggest ones they can you know
get spot Michael Phelps can get a
sponsorship right for the biggest for
the biggest ones but the the lower ones
can't get sponsorships and like the
shotput
people can't get sponsorships and
they're also not even allowed to promote
themselves using the Olympics they can't
be like hey pizza place you know I'll be
I'll be an Olympic athlete me you know
anything beats a place because if they
use the word Olympics that IOC will sue
them um so yeah it's already but really
really really not fair but it's so
prestigious if you can win a gold medal
in the Olympics I mean you basically can
you have a Fitness career for a life
yeah but well you could figure it out
you could be a high school coach for the
rest of your life on the sport depending
on the sport right like a shot put shot
put I don't know what your prospects are
right fuck bro you throwing rocks people
track I like track and field which sucks
cuz is one of the dirtiest of all the
sports but it's why I don't want to
watch why is that a part of track and
field the rock-throwing part track or
field what are you doing are you a human
catapult are you at the top of a new the
dude that they put on the top of the
bridge for rock words I like this where
someone has to like ride a horse then
shoot a gun then go for a swim the old
times shit there's some stupid fucking
sports in the Olympics sorry my Canadian
friends but yeah curling curling is the
top of the heap curling is getting
bigger and bigger preposterous they
don't have jiu-jitsu in the Olympics
they don't really know okay that's
fucked up
yeah retired NFL guys currently trying
to make the curling team that just based
off of a bet that he'd like with his
drunk buddies like I bet I could do it
daddy could do it for sure they're
having a tough time actually fuck that
they are but like a drunk they're not
even trying it's just that you're the
systems we use to organize these things
are so important you know it's so much
more like here's a really good example
of this I thought this is fascinating
like India right a country of over a
billion people right huge number of
people has almost no Olympic athletes
right and I'm like though the first guy
wrestlers something of wrestlers I'm not
sure but the I remember this cuz a
couple Olympics ago the first individual
gold medalist ever from India won a gold
medal when he wanted an air pistol which
is like shooting my shit shooting oh
yeah no okay he's independently wealthy
and had just practiced in practice and
practice what they don't have is India
is it's a great country it's not a very
organized country they don't have a lot
of infrastructure in terms of you know
we've got teams right whereas in the
u.s. we devote tons of money government
money private money to like you know the
swimming us swimming billions of dollars
people training sigh instead of that in
India they don't have that right right
so despite the fact that they have so
many people they got a billion people it
must have every type they must have one
of the world's strongest people they
must have won the world's fastest people
because they got a billion people right
what they don't have is that training
infrastructure right so if you look at
it that way you're like okay hold on a
second we don't like
performance-enhancing drugs because
unearned unfair advantage well what else
is training infrastructure than an
unfair advantage if you're born in the
US you have a way better chance of
making it at the Olympics and becoming
that greatest athlete in the world and
someone in the in India how is that fair
how is that not an unfair advantage you
know that's true but to play devil's
advocate if you were state-sponsored
athlete from Russia or China you have a
much better EE than you do if you're an
American and you're some shotput dude
who doesn't have a way to make a living
you bills while you're working for the
Olympics you totally do so my point is
there's no baseline human like there's
no there's no way to eliminate all
advantages and never you know just say
oh no it's just what you came is just
what you were born with right you know
doesn't exist there's no such thing so
women
who are running with that I'm sorry
what's her name again caster Semenya
caster Semenya those women who are
running with her they just shit happens
bro you know if you're a heavyweight
boxed and you grew up in the era of Mike
Tyson yeah I'm sorry but this is just
what you're stuck with yeah this is
what's going on and some people are just
they just have advantages yeah they just
have advantages physically mentally and
there's outliers you found it sorry you
got an out lighter weight might want to
do something else yeah yeah what races
that lady's gonna run and don't run
those races yeah run a different
different race that's always been how do
you feel about trans athletes you know
it's a good it's a good question I think
it's we're really gonna go through like
a cultural change on how we think about
that you know it's it's morphing so
quickly you know what I mean I'm very
much because I am of this opinion that
there is no such thing as like perfect
fairness and when we make those
distinctions we're always choosing who
to allow and because I think we should
choose to allow like trans people to
participate in society I'm for an
inclusive approach where you know we're
able to like find a find like a model
that allows those folks to compete
fairly in a way that everybody's happy
with I think that's the I think that's
what we should do you know and that to
me is like that's what makes me like
sports more you know is those
comparisons like you know another thing
that pissed me off so much was like fuck
what's his name the the disabled runner
who then killed his girlfriend's story
that's right and people were saying
about this guy that his that his a
prosthetic gave him an advantage now
first of all there's no fucking way
that's true because he doesn't have
muscles muscles actually thing into does
give you an advantage I mean I think I
think mechanically it does because
they're Springs they essentially the way
his leg works with those things is you
put you've seen him right they don't
even look remotely like feet things yeah
yeah it's a crazy like but dude the butt
hole is that that's not an advantage
because how mechanics work right is that
a spring you put energy into it and you
get a little bit less energy out right
so because that's the laws of
thermodynamics
you can't get more out than you put in
except a muscle does give you more than
you put in because a muscle converts
food into energy for a brief period
right and so he does he has Sprint he
doesn't have Springs sorry he has
Springs he doesn't have a machine in his
leg the way the rest of us do
that creates force out of food well no
question is whether or not the lower
half of his legs which is what he's
missing
could make up for the the advantage the
mechanical advantage of the shape of
those things which applies all sorts of
really unusual leverage when you're
right totally you're not yeah I mean I
don't I don't know if it's I mean I
don't know if you took him with full
legs and took him with those things if
they'd run the same amount of time but
the thing it we can't run fast as fuck
with those things you've seen those guys
well he could right but where's all the
other double amputees who are like you
know coming of a marine track and
field's how many of them are trying to I
mean Paralympics is huge there's like a
ton of Paralympic athletes you know like
I've been told that it has a mechanical
advantage by someone who actually should
know what they're talking about but I
want to like to look it up do those legs
pistorius's legs today I remember
reading stuff at the time from you know
you know exercise whatever athletic
scientists forget what it's called who
said that it who said that it didn't
right yeah but so that's a debate that
we could have right right but with the
point that I was trying to make was
looking at that Olympics god that's a
better event with that guy in it you
know I'm so happy he was in it right
like what if if it does give you an
advantage well so so the point is when
we make the rules of a game right and
this is the point of our episode about
games which is about the Olympics
actually when we make the rules of a
game we are there's no such thing as a
perfectly fair competition that would be
designed by God to be perfect and be
perfectly fair right we're always making
choices about what kind of competition
we want to have and who we want to allow
into it and what sort of outcome we want
to have you know what I mean right
just like in baseball too many home runs
move the mound up or down you know how
they change the rules a little bit
because they want more home runs same
thing with same thing with track and
field we change the rules a little bit
to allow this person or not allow this
person right I think that when we're
talking about people we should always
try to include more people not
we should you know like if and if hey if
you're a double amputee and you can get
your way into the Olympics you can make
a plausible case I think we should try
to entertain that notion and we should
try to find a way to get that guy in
there right as far as trans athletes go
you know we could have we could sit here
and talk for three hours about like all
the different ways that hormones might
affect your body might not affect your
body and I'm not an expert on that and I
don't want to claim to be right but a
sports with trans athletes who are you
know competing with the you know with
their gender right that's that is a
sporting world that I'm more interested
in right and I think we should find a
way to make that happen I know it can be
really complicated complicated and messy
right and there's gonna be a lot debate
about it and it's gonna make it's gonna
be uncomfortable you know there's gonna
a lot of arguments but you know I hope
that that's the world that we move
forward to that's my that's my point of
view my point of view is that there's a
reason there's a distinction there's a
reason why we make the distinction to
have male athletics versus female
athletic s-- the reason is that males
have a physiological physiological
advantage over women so in most sports
most physical sports we do not have
males compete with females the question
becomes when someone who is male
transitions and becomes female do those
same physiological advantages apply and
what what are they what is the evidence
well the evidence and competition seems
to be that it shows that it does apply
particularly in weightlifting rugby
mountain biking power heavy sports that
are that favored larger people stronger
bodies males that transition to females
have a significant advantage in their
breaking World Records so if you're a
woman and you're a natural woman and you
don't take any extra hormones or male
hormones you're not taking steroids or
any sort of performance-enhancing drugs
you're doing your very best to compete
and you're at the top of the heap but
then someone comes along that was a man
for 30 years and decides they're going
to be a woman and this has happened and
literally transitioned a few months ago
and competes as a woman and destroys
records and dominates you in that sport
that's bullshit and that's not competing
on a level playing field that's a person
who's
biologically a male and who was a male
for 30 plus years of having testosterone
run through their body and affect their
tendon strength and affect the shape of
their bones and the mechanical
advantages of the male hips versus the
female hips and then they're competing
with smaller people who have been a
woman their whole life it's not fair
it's it's as much cheating as taking
steroids when the other person doesn't
or taking performance-enhancing drugs
when the other person doesn't maybe even
more so maybe even more so because you
also have there's a bunch of advantages
in terms of reaction time that males
enjoy it's like it's some significant
difference in reaction time between
males and even untrained males versus
female professional athletes well I
disagree and I what do you disagree but
I've already well the my main point
being the one that I already made right
that like I don't think that there is
such a thing as a perfectly level
playing field I think we decide what
kind of playing field we want to have
sure we do make the distinction where we
don't allow men to compete in women's
division and I think that that
distinction may be breaking down a bit
right and I think it may be time to
break down that distinction so you think
that males should be able to compete in
the women's division of weightlifting no
I don't necessarily but I can if they
transition well first of all the there's
there's a lot of stuff to break down
right now I'm not an expert on the
subject right so it's just sort of my
off the top of my head one thing is you
know you're postulating a particular
person who decided to transition at the
age of 30 right and they were very big
and strong before right and they decide
to transition now that is a type of
person that exists right I think over
the next certainly thirty years we're
gonna see you know now that people are
starting to understand that being trans
is just a way that people are right
they're just people who are trans you
know and this is something that we're
gonna accept and support right you're
seeing folks transition much much
earlier age you know they're so but then
and and so if someone is if someone is
you know transitioning from the age of
like you know seven years old right and
you know working with those hormones you
know from that age right they're not
going to have you know that their body
situation will be very different than
the one that you that you postulated
right I also know from my trans friends
that the effects that the hormones have
on your body are like really profound
you know like really really profound
like we're not like to a surprising
degree right and so you know I have look
if the question is how does you know how
does a person who starts taking hormones
at a particular age right how does their
body change and how does that affect
these avi athletic performance I don't
know we're in such new territory here we
certainly are and we particularly we
just scratched upon the idea of kids
transitioning in a very early age I mean
there's been more scientific evidence
that points that if kids don't do that
than when they wanted to be trans at an
early age they just become gay men and
that there's nothing wrong with that
either
there's no reason to give kids hormones
and there's no reason to decide before a
person's frontal lobe is completely
completely fully developed which doesn't
even take place to look 25 kid people
don't know who they are
yes a seven-year-old you you won't even
keep people don't even give their
seven-year-old phones you don't let them
vote you're gonna let them decide what
sex they're going to be view their life
the the research that I've seen and
again I'm not an expert on this and you
know I'd love to this is a conversation
this is I'd love to talk about on our
show and I'd specifically love you know
this is before this is the kind of topic
where I really want to make sure that I
know the research and that I'm you know
also speaking to trans folks you know in
in this conversation but so to touch on
just what I've you know my own
experience and what I've the research
I've seen the research I've seen is that
trans kids from a young age they are
incredibly consistent in their what you
know when they're expressing the gender
identity in that and a lot of human
beings yeah yeah but that's that's fits
this narrative by saying they're
incredibly consistent but if you polled
these people like what are you talking
about like of you I mean that's I look I
don't have the research in front of me
that I saw so I can't like go into the
details on it but like yeah was I mean
was you know it was research that was
surveying and track
like trans kids who declared the right
and D from a young age did it change the
answer was generally no it really didn't
and you know I have a friend who has a
who has a trans kid another kid's exact
age but you know we're in the age range
that we're talking about and you know
he's explained that like well you know
my child from a very young age
consistently like said I am a girl like
and has never contradicted themselves
never changed their mind and so the
humane thing and the thing that he felt
was going to do as a parent was to like
embrace that choice on his child's part
right and yeah that's the embrace of
choice meaning hormonal II I shouldn't
even phrase it as a choice like like
embrace that identity but it is a choice
right I mean if I'm choosing to add
hormones to a child's body that's a
choice it's a choice it's it's the it's
a choice on the point on the part of the
parent it's not a choice in the on the
on the part of the child to like in the
same way that being is they were that
being gay isn't a choice yeah okay but
if that's who they are if they think
that they're a girl why do you have to
give them hormones to make them more of
a girl because I'm sorry can you expand
on the question it's a simple question
if you say that the child thinks it's a
girl so you're going to give the child
hormones mm-hmm if the child thinks it's
a girl
let it be a girl like you don't have why
you adding hormones if you're shooting
hormones into a child and you're
affecting the child's development you're
saying that's not a choice that's
nonsense of course it's a choice you're
choosing to chemically change this
child's body you're choosing to
injections into this child's body on a
regular basis that are going to
radically affect the physical
development of their body yeah and
you're saying that this isn't a choice
what's definitely a choice to do that so
so what trans people Express and again
I'm not an expert this is from me
talking to my trans friends and and you
know seeing what other trans folks say
is that the you know experience of being
trans and not receiving hormones right
and not having the body that you
identify with the feeling of dysphoria
right is
extremely like painful and is a
condition unto itself right and the the
the feeling of not belonging with the
body that you have of that mismatch
right that seems to be in the broad
variety of humanity the way that some
people are born right where their inner
self right the self that they are
they're like ima you know they're not
thinking they are a woman they're like
this is the person that I am doesn't
match the body that they have right and
that gives them extreme distress right
and that leads to you know suicide that
leads to you know other damaging
behaviors right and the best treatment
for that that we know exists is to you
know have do gender confirmation via
hormones and know that that doesn't
affect the suicide rate the suicide rate
for trans people is very high post-op
and pre-op really doesn't get affected
by whether or not you treat them well
the operation you know one of the
questions can be why is that is that
because they're not accepted by society
and we're not more loving could it be
underlying issues that are causing them
to feel this way in the first place like
what is it we don't know and I'm sure it
varies widely look so all I can do is
defer to the experts that that I know
about this right so you know for
instance there's a author named Bryn
Tannehill who's a former former military
helicopter pilot I just interviewed her
for my new podcast that's coming out
soon called actually I'm doing it on
Earwolf and it's like a long-form
interview podcast and so she's one of
the people who's affected by the Trump
military ban on trans service people you
know so that's why she's trans because
she's trans yeah
and she wrote a fantastic book called
everything you need to know about trans
that like she's a she is now a
researcher right and she went into
really deep detail about like here is
all of the medical science here is all
of here's all the science about it and
so at this point in the conversation I
would say like hey man I just got a bone
up on you know on that particular side
rates my entire concern is with children
my concern is not with young adults
deciding to take steps to
confirmed their gender identity who they
feel they really are I'm all for you
doing whatever you want to do when
you're an adult when your mind is formed
but people change their mind they change
their opinion they change their thoughts
there's nothing wrong with just deciding
to be a gay man there's nothing wrong
with your body you know as you grow and
mature and develop you growing out of
these ideas some will in some world and
the ones who won't they always have the
option to do something later on in life
but if you do something to hormonal e
block a child very early on there's no
turning back from that well let me say
let me say a few things to that first of
all it's not wrong to be concerned about
children and there's a reason this is
the most intense part of this
conversation
and I think it's correct right because
we're all very concerned about children
right but I do want to say first of all
I don't think it's correct that trans
people if they don't receive hormones
from an from a young age they simply
become gay men because I know it happens
very often
I know trans if you can find that
because it was a big article that was
written about that recently where they
were talking about whether or not gender
confirmation surgery and hormone
blockers on young children is ethical
because of this fact and this was what
they were talking about where people at
one point time wanted to be trans and
they listed several famous examples and
then as they became older just decided
to be gay including women who wanted to
be men who just became gay women and I
think what's that girl's name that was
in John wick Ruby Rose she was one of
those she was trans when she was younger
and now she's just a gay woman so look I
I know I know quite a few trans folks
right and I have to be honest none of
the ones that I know were I don't know
any trans women personally who are gay
men up until they transitioned right I
know quite a few trans women who were
straight men right or who you know lived
their lives as to present it as straight
men right and then transitioned right as
an overcome lesbians yeah I mean that's
that that's one of the ways that people
can be I really recommend that oh the
other thing I was gonna say is that I do
know also among the trans folks that I
know where the trans people who speak
about this that I've heard so many of
them say I wish I had access
I knew this about myself at a very young
age and I wish to
that I had that we had I had had the
ability to receive you know these
hormones at a young age my life would be
so much better and I'm not gonna argue
with those folks you know I wouldn't
argue with these folks either but you
have to address the fact that there are
people that have gone through transition
surgery and said I wish to God that I
never did this there's a lot of those
people too so if you're looking for
anecdotal evidence and you want to be
objective you kind of have to I'm sure
I'm sure we can find the anecdotes I'm
very curious and this is what I go
consult my friend or my recent interview
set to print Anna Hills work on this to
see how many see how many are in each
group right now which which which sets
of these folks are the outliers I think
the folks that you're talking about are
probably the outliers but I can't you
know confirm that all surgeries have
potential costs however according to a
Swedish study of 324 patients 341
percent of whom were born female surgery
was associated with considerably higher
risk for mortality suicidal behavior and
psychiatric morbidity than the general
population so that's people who got the
surgery I am curious with three point
four one percent of them I mean the
devil of this is in the details right
because how much is the is the higher
risk what does it mean 3.14 senator who
were born female well some of them were
born female and the other ones were born
male the nails that transition to
females is what it's saying it's only
saying a small percentage of them were
born female the transition to male but
the larger percentage was males who
transition to female and that the
surgery that they received was
associated with considerably higher
risks for mortality suicidal behavior
and psychiatric morbidity than the
general population sure that's not
healing them that's saying that having
that surgery is associated with higher
risks or mortality
suicidal behavior and psychiatric
morbidity but it also says above
following surgery patients report lower
gender dysphoria and improved sexual
relationships right so everything's
awesome well this isn't saying that
people are killing themselves you know
talking fruit you're looking for
something that confirms obviously let me
establish opinion and as are you you
know we should be we should always be
careful of drawing too much from you
know a single study and look at it
widely right but
what was the point I was about to make
it fled my head uh I I'm sort of at the
oh here's what it was surgery another
thing I know from from speaking with
trans folks is that surgery is
overemphasized right and then and that
surgery for those folks is not the you
know we as sort of straights as people
tend to put too much emphasis on like oh
did you get the surgery yet or not you
know and really it's more about what are
you living as and what is you know what
sort of set of hormones do you have
right but I would really one of the I've
sort of reached the limit of like my
facility with this topic I really want
to shout out videos made by a friend of
mine her videos are called contra points
her name's Natalie win and she does
these ink which is a former philosopher
former philosophy PhD and she does these
incredibly funny videos about is not
just about trans issues about all types
of things I should really great one
about comedy recently but she really
breaks down like a lot of these a lot of
misconceptions right and has really
changed every time I watch one of her
videos I'm like learning new things and
like new ideas or like pop pop pop in my
head you know and I think you should
check him out and and you might enjoy
talking to her on the on the show she's
a really fascinating person three points
it's an incredibly complex subject it
really had a really angel on the podcast
before who transitioned from female to
male which is also a different and
interesting thing yeah um you know and
he said that his whole life just felt
like he was a boy and he didn't
understand why he didn't have a penis he
didn't understand like yeah the whole
that didn't make sense and then once he
transitioned to being a male then he
felt complete you know yeah I don't deny
that my entire concern is that you're
making decisions for children
yeah and that this is a completely new
thing with no historical precedent we've
never done this before there's not like
a history of hundreds of years of
hormone blocker blockers being used on
young children and whether or not that
is healthy and promotes a positive life
I feel like if a child thinks they're a
girl let them live as a girl but you
don't have to hormonal II engage with
their body with chemicals
it just seems crazy it seems ill-advised
it does it seems like this
movement of acceptance and progressive
thinking in in in many ways is a
fantastic thing it's a fantastic
movement but this seems to me to be a
leap and that you're making this leap to
confirm your ideology and to confirm
that you know you're a hundred percent
cool with trans people and you're a
hundred percent cool and you you're
gonna recognize this child as trans but
you're doing something you're doing
something to this child's body that you
can't turn around and if this child
decides at whatever age we decide that
you can make rational decisions to
transition as trans let them fully
develop first let them be a person let
them make these decisions but if you
want to identify as a woman you and you
want to keep your penis that should be
fine - there's nothing wrong with that
if you want to keep a functional penis
you want to identify as a woman and not
even take hormones who cares
do that do that but when you're stepping
in to a developing baby that's only been
alive for six years and you're shooting
chemicals into its body to change the
way it develops
show me the research show me the decades
of peer-reviewed Studies on one of the
most important things that we know of
the development of a human being where
you're going to home or hormonal II
interact with their body in some sort of
a random dr. Frankenstein sort of way
like how much evidence do we know what
evidence do we have that this is a
powerful absolute like intelligent smart
way to handle a child's life over the
long term like when these kids grow to
be 60 as opposed to kids who don't get
the the hormone shots when they're 6
these people are 15% more happy there's
nothing like that but yet people are
jumping into it because it seems like
the thing to do because it seems like
the tide of society is moving in that
direction well I I don't jump into it
for that reason I do think that when
we're talking about an issue that
affects those people right the first
thing we should do is listen to those
people right some of the children listen
to the children and listen to the adults
right who said I used to be that child
okay you know but they are not that
child and you know - you said look
everyone's different so for them to say
I was that child that's nonsense
you were a similar
child in a similar situation you were
not there not literally saying there but
they don't know how that child is
feeling they don't know how much that
child's being influenced by its
environment they don't know how much
their thoughts and their expressions are
being encouraged by their parents they
don't know that child sure so my point
is when we're taught when you and I are
talking about this right now we're
speaking pretty hypothetically right
we're talking about a child that is not
in the room that we don't have we're
talking about a fictional trial right so
what we really care about are the actual
people right and when we talk to the
actual trans folks right and talk to you
know say hey what do you think you know
how do you feel and you know include
them in the conversation I think we have
a different conversation about it you
know we do have a hands-on conversation
but we also have a different
conversation we talk to people that have
regret from transition surgery because
there's a lot of those sure but we're
not we don't have either of those folks
in their limb right you know we have to
acknowledge it they're real as well yeah
I don't I'm not I'm not dismissing that
those people are real right but when we
say if you talk to trans folks you get
this impression that's not necessarily
true
yeah what a wide range of impression no
I wasn't just I wasn't talking about
specifically the impression that it I
wasn't saying we should reason from
anecdotal evidence right I'm saying that
look the last conversation I had with a
person about this was a was a trans
military veteran who is a researcher who
wrote a book on on these issues right
comprehensively looked at the research
and told me that the research shows that
the evidence that you're asking for
exists maybe not on a 30-year timeline
but there have been studies of this and
here's what we know about them right
about children yeah I mean that's that
is my understanding of the reaiiy have
not looked at the research myself you
know I don't have my shows the positive
benefits of children transitioning I
don't think that exists well we can't
solve that in this conversation right
here but so that my point is look I'm
not gonna go out on a limb and tell you
more than I can I can say off top my
head right because I'm not an expert on
the subject
this is something that you know if I if
this were something we've done on our
show and I had dive into the research
more I could tell you more I know it
exists but I can tell you what I have
been told exists by people who have made
it their business to know you know so so
you know that would be my next step in
the conversation but you know that's
what I'm saying is those are you know
including those folks in this
conversation is a really critical part
of it for me from so yeah well it's a
conversation the world needs to have for
sure yeah and I think it's one that we
will have and you know again just to
bring it back to at let excite I think
that the undeniable existence of trans
you know children to teenagers to adults
right who want to compete right and who
make a compelling case to that that they
should be able to compete right is going
to be something that we're gonna have to
grapple with you know I don't there's
gonna be easy answers to it and we're
wrestling with you know right now yeah I
mean I think the real the legitimate
solution is a trans leak or a trans
division and to have a male division of
female division and trans division if
you want to compete athletically that's
fair to me
that makes sense well I hope that
there's you know like say with the you
got the Paralympics right and the
Paralympics is really like it's divided
you do you know how they do it where
they do like they've got all the
different levels for you've got this
much amputated or you're this mobile and
you can compete in this way you know and
so that's really great to make a way
that you know those folks can compete on
a is level as a playing field as we can
be get you know given the the manifold
variations in human bodies right but the
fact that Oscar Pistorius which by the
way we should bring up again he killed
his girlfriend which is a very weird
part of the story I thought she was a
robber bizarre a completely bizarre but
the fact that he was able to compete in
the Olympics right not just in the
Paralympics I think such a wonderful
thing you know and so I would hope that
whatever organization we come up with
you know allows for the allows for
humans in all their variations to
compete in the main league as well right
because fair as possible they come up
with Bionic legs like Steve Austin from
the Six Million Dollar Man
there's some people out there they'll
cut their fucking legs off to run faster
and that's real there are people that
want to win so bad they would cut the
bottom of their legs off to get Bionic
prosthesis they would really for sure
100% would would you know I wouldn't but
I'm not crazy look there's people that I
mean these hands just cuz they they're a
little bit do you know that people have
that feeling that they're supposed to be
disabled yes yes yes there's people with
all sorts of psychological disorders but
you want the need to win is so insanely
strong in some people and if they found
out that hey man well who gives a fuck
about your feet in your calves man
they're gonna look just like feet and
calves except they allow you to run 45
miles an hour I think people do it isn't
that a little similar to the argument
when people say oh trans bathrooms it's
just so men are just gonna lie about us
they can go in the bathroom and peep at
women and then you actually expand that
right you're like hold on a second
you're telling me a dude is going to
tell the entire world I am I'm not a man
I'm a woman they're gonna start dressing
differently they're gonna take hormones
they're gonna like live with the stigma
right they're gonna one of most
stigmatized type of people you can be in
America they as a trans person they're
gonna live with that stigma they're
gonna change our whole lives and they're
gonna do all of that just so they can
peep at women in the bathroom
well that highly unlikely it doesn't
make any sense but also that's not
entirely what could happen the what also
could happen is you could get some creep
who dresses up like a woman and goes to
the male to the women's bathroom you can
get that I mean I'm all for trans now
listen but I'm you can't happen now I'm
all for but if you have a bathroom that
allows trans people and you get some
creep who says I'm just gonna pretend to
be trans if you don't think that's real
then you're crazy
of course people do that of course
there's in people there's not as there
is there's people have been arrested men
who were sex offenders who dressed up as
women and went into the women's room and
harassed women there's already been
arrests this is but it's not because
here's the thing they're not trans
people people that are taking advantage
of a loophole and they're creeps and
they they probably wanted to go into the
female bathroom anyway but they just
couldn't do it before and now that
there's trans exclus inclusive bathrooms
some creeps have been arrested doing
that they're not trans people the real
problem is the creeps the real problem
is not the trans people using the
women's
they should of course be able to use it
but the creeps can go like you don't
need a law for like it so if they're not
trans people right they are not supposed
to be in the bathroom right right there
were in the same way trans people and
thus you have people were worried about
but so you have arrested people doing
but so they could also do that even if
it was not a gender inclusive picture
right because they would be breaking the
rules of the bathroom in exactly the
same way but everybody waking up after a
man in a dress versus them being trans
see if you see a trans person often
times tramps people look very masculine
there's no if you're just gonna pretend
to be trans there's no need to hide we
have to ask we have to ask ourselves is
if the hypothetical or if the extremely
extremely rare situation that you're
discussing right is so horrifying to us
and such a such a big problem that it's
worth disenfranchising millions of
people from the ability to simply go to
the bathroom when they need to you know
if if that extreme edge case or
hypothetical case right are we really
going to are we really going to you know
hurt all all of these actual people who
actually existence hey I just need to
goddamn go to the bathroom you know in a
in a place that is you know safe for me
right and I don't think I don't think it
is you know like we can talk about that
one edge case all day long you know
there's been more than one case but I
think here's the question what where
what are there more of are there more
trans people or there more sexual
predators a hundred percent more trans
people than sexual predators who are
specifically going to put on a dress and
in order to go into a bathroom
specifically yeah there's more transfer
of a million how many people are trans
what's the numbers on that you know I
don't know but I would I would consult
my consult my friend Bryn's book to find
out because I'm sure it's in I guess she
she wrote a book that breaks all these
statistics called this is such
everything you need to know about train
minefield of a subject you know soon as
you start bringing this shit up people
because it's it's complicated and people
they dig their heels in the ground on
both sides you know and you know I I
tried to have you know happy were able
to have a conversation about I try to
have a conversation that's based on you
know what I try not to say more than I
then I think I can say that with you
know with surety and you know but my
basic principle is man I just want to
defer to the humanity of the people that
I'm talking about you know what I mean
and rather than say well here's my idea
here's my concern what about though what
if you know what what if a space alien
were to come down to the X Y Z you know
what I mean rather than try to come up
with thought experiments about it you
know I'm just like hey there's some
people in America they're making a
polite request can we use the bathroom
please go ahead you know that's that's
my that's what I default to rather just
killed perverts and if I kill the
perverts you know how many I think
there's a way with sports again right I
genuinely think hey my default is I
understand its problem I understand
you're gonna have female athletes who
are who say hey wait a second is this
fair right I think we can go forward
with good faith and find a way let's
find a model that works for everybody
you know I think we can do it Lynne in a
way that respects the humanity of the
trans a athletes and assists a fleet I
think that we can do that
and that's that that will always be my I
think it's easy to say as an outsider if
you're a female athlete that's been
forced to compete with trans women who
used to be men for most their lives I
think you'd have a different opinion
because I think they have a distinct
physiological advantage that's been
expressed many times I mean there's a
lot of records have been broken by trans
women who are now weight lifters and
there's that one who's the fucking dirt
biker who's was a professional dirt bike
professional rider before as a man and
then transitioned over to a woman is
just dominating these things it's just I
don't necessarily think it's fair I
think just like it's not fair for a man
to compete as a woman I don't think that
all those disadvantages or those
advantages rather go away when you
transition especially in a short time
period I just don't think they do and I
don't think there's any evidence it
shows they do there's a diminishing
amount but how much so and in fact the
a doctor a board-certified
endocrinologist dr. Ramona Critic I
think as her name would did a whole
article on this about fighters about
male fighters transitioning to becoming
female and competing as female which has
happened and they're saying that not
only does the estrogen therapy it
actually preserves bone density
it doesn't just turn them into a woman
or turn them into female or the saw
their hormonal profiles similar to the
females but it also preserves their
masculine bone density because one of
the reasons why women lose bone density
as they get older
is a lack of estrogens part of the
reason why osteoporosis kicks in that
they that stops it in its tracks when
you're you're injecting female hormones
into a males frame so they maintain this
male bone density now there's also
arguments that african-american female
bone density is in many cases similar to
white European male bone density so
that's the argument about the outliers
and about whether or not it's a level
playing field because it most certainly
is not yeah I mean so that that's where
I get back to the idea that look could
someone show that a athlete who a transy
athlete who wants to compete is going to
have a physiological advantage because
of their history of transition right
could that be the case sometimes
probably so you know I'm not gonna I'm
not gonna argue that well that's how
about this because I actually don't want
to know one way or the other because I
have not looked at any research on this
so I don't wanna make any claim so let's
just let's just grant that for the sake
of this thought experiment okay so that
being said let's compare that against
every single other advantage that every
other competitor could have
socioeconomic advantage right country of
origin you know whether or not they live
in Denver if they live below sea level
you know like all those different things
right do is it humane to draw a line
around that one unearned advantage right
against all those other honored
advantages you know at what point does
our fantasy of having a level of having
a true level playing field end up
hurting people you know end up end up
excluding people and that's the
conversation that I think we could have
you know I heard a really great
this is just the beginning of a thought
right but it came up just somewhere I
was talking to some people about this
and in sports one of the things our
assumption that men have an advantage
over women right in sports in sports yes
our assumption yeah well yeah let me let
me expand on our assumption that men
have an advantage over women in sports
is partially based on the fact that so
many of the sports were designed for
male bodies right they're optimized for
male bodies right basketball for example
right optimized for male bodies it's
like the the the height of the basket
you know the the way that the ball moves
around you know like like almost if
we're gonna say that if we're gonna say
that men and women have physiological
differences right and then we're
creating sports and this and the sports
are sort of tuned to the physiological
differences of course here we're talking
about power speed athleticism all those
there's an advantage okay so when you
look at some joy when you look at say
gymnastics right yes I would say that
like women for the events that are in a
women's gymnastic competition right have
an advantage over men right
women feel lighter women don't compete
on the ring hold thing you know what I
mean right
men don't compete at some of that crazy
you know bar shit you know what I mean
like larger there it's its height its
flexibility it's like there's a lot
going on right so that's a rare case
where women's gymnastics we've actually
created events in that and like
competitions that like only women can do
right and so we sort of optimized that
sport more for a female body right what
if we did that with a lot more sports
right and how about this what if we were
able to develop because again the rules
of the game right are not absolute the
rules of our game are things that humans
create right and so why do we use like
maybe part of our assumption that men
are better at sports than women or men
have an advantage of sports than women
are that we have constructed most of the
games that we've constructed are
actually sort of biased towards a male
type of body
right that sounds ridiculous first of
all the reason why gymnastics is like
why women are good at gymnastics first
of all their their flexibility their
lightness all those things also they're
not competing against men in a
one-on-one type of situation like one's
trying to defend the other one's trying
to attack like a game of basketball or a
game of football or any other sort of
teams or have them compete against the
it's a physical event as opposed to a
sport so physical event is you have to
do this thing it's very athletic it's an
athletic endeavor should do it as your
points you'll and no one's trying to
stop you from doing it then when you're
shooting basketballs you're not just
shooting basketballs you're trying to
shoot a basketball what people are
trying to defend you're trying to Juke
left and then go right you're trying to
be sneaky you're trying to shoot from
the outside there's all this shit going
on and a lot of it involves your ability
to move fast to close distance to have
the physical strength to leap up in the
air and there's a huge physical
advantage that men enjoy this is not
because the sports designed this way
it's because the sport is very simple
there's a basket on one side a basket on
the other side you got to get it in here
he's they got to get it in there ready
go if you're faster and you're stronger
you'll be able to accomplish that better
males are faster and stronger there's a
reason why there's a male and a female
division it's not that these sports were
designed for males is that men are
physically bigger and stronger and
faster these are physiological
advantages yeah you can have a thing
like a gymnastics balance beam event
where women are gonna shine because
they're lighter and more flexible and
they can do things with their body that
men can't because of the shape of their
all the mass all the different things
but that's rare that's the outlier I
yeah I don't I don't think we actually
disagree that much
the reason it's rare is because
historically we've created most of our
sports around things that men have the
advantage and you're not wrong that
sports are most sports involves speed
and power most sports but why men have
an advantage in speed and power I know
but we created those sports right what
would we possibly be able to create
where women
have an advantage that is an athletic
event where a man's speed and power does
not give him an advantage
I mean look man this this is not again
like I said this is the beginning of a
thought right I'm trying I'm trying to
use this as a thought experiment as sort
of like a possibility opening device
right but so you you postulate hey now
you you make a fair point that there's a
difference between individual athletic
events like gymnastics and competitive
one-on-one or events like you know
grappling or or basketball or something
like that right and so I'm thinking this
through myself as I'm talking about it
right
but mm-hmm like I don't think it's
impossible that you could come up with a
one-on-one competition that privileges
that that is that is designed around the
same athletic qualities that make a
women make a woman give her an advantage
in a certain gymnastics event I don't
think there's any reason you couldn't do
the same thing for a find a one-on-one
competition that did the same thing
right
there's also what could it be I mean
well here's an example for instance I
believe I'm not sure I'm not a hundred
percent sure but I believe in like
shooting events right for example that
women and men are on a level playing
field correct or or that like you know
sort of air rifle sort of thing that
like there are events right there there
do exist athletic events where you can
have men and women in direct competition
with each other right where that where
that event is not designed around a
particular facet of a you know male or
female body right so my point is look
men have you do you agree that men have
run the country in the world for like
most of civilization like almost every
country ok great so men have been the
ones setting up the sports so the fact
that as you say it's rare that we have
sports that are sort of more designed
around a female you know the differences
between between women as opposed to men
right I think that might be because men
have been setting up all the sports
right and so my so my there's only
sports that women gravitate towards how
do you mean there's sports that women
gravitate towards the daily enjoy this
minke like women's volleyball right
women have traditionally gravitated
towards gymnastics as you said earlier
example but those way more women
involved in gymnastics than men
oh absolutely um but there those are the
sports that get the less attention right
and we have less huge amounts it sure
does it's one of the rare examples of
like ones where you know that is there a
real female forward you know female
first sport right know what one bothers
me the most is the volleyball why is
that because the girls have to dress
like hoes basketball players had a dress
like that yeah that's fucked up man well
I think they can choose what their where
I think what the Muslim Egyptian team
they dress in traditional what's the
name of the volleyball player who has
the black tape on very famous you know
they're the two the two women the two
women from the US they're very famous
volleyball players whose names I can't
remember they probably aren't
complaining about what they're wearing
they probably choosing what they're
wearing I don't know but I mean when I
tuned into Olympic volleyball my Tim Lee
these girls in their underwear
pretending they're at the beach they're
not even at the beach it's a choice okay
but is that a choice for the men
basketball players can they wear thongs
they can wear short shorts if they
imagine decided where they they could
wear like a cut off with a midriff
showing and any little booty shorts they
might be allowed to if they wanted to
ask you later they might get shit in the
locker maybe they'd make a pole I like
the short shorts that they used to wear
a couple decades ago so okay look yeah
Larry Bird style you know one of the
things I love about baseball when I try
watching baseball is you get to choose
your own baseball pants you ever noticed
that like they get to choose when you
look at them some of them wear really
tight baseball pants and then someone
wear really baggy baseball pants and I
just love imagining I like clothes I
imagine them going to like a baseball
tailor and being like dude I want to
like sag my pants I want to you know
I'll show a little swag but you don't
want to impede your performance so I
think the tight would be better as
you're running if swimmers shave their
bodies to be more aerodynamic I mean how
much really if you're just running to
first base how much does like baggy
pants the wind catching the baggy pants
could that for real well you look at
like Manny Ramirez had like the baggiest
pants I remember and like you
to imagine that guy was like a little
bit suboptimal with his baseball pants
you know be maybe just stuff yeah maybe
had big ass thighs and they only feel
good with baggy pants let me just put a
bow on on what I was trying to get
earlier right because I know I was I was
sort of like getting to a pretty Spacey
place my point is just what our show is
about so much is about showing how the
things that we take for granted in our
world like the way the world is so much
of that time is just something that we
built right right and we can question it
and so when we say men are men have
advantages in women over sports I'm like
well hold on a second let's look at how
we set the sports up and is it possible
that we could set up set it up in a
different way right that would allow
more people to compete in sports right
might not be the same sports I'm not
gonna say that women should play in the
NFL against men right I don't think I'll
be safe I think anyone should play in
the NFL frankly I think it's way too
dangerous it's very bad for people but
is it like is our assumption just based
on hey these are the sports that we
invented we happen to invent sports that
where men have the advantage can we
imagine a world where 90% of sports are
ones where women have an advantage of
would we be having a different
conversation and if that's the case
could we come up with some sports that
like everybody could you know that where
there's no non-physical sports I think
but I think yeah you could come out with
competitions where women and female
traditional female characteristics would
have an advantage for sure you could I
mean it could definitely be done you
know it's just the ones that exist now
ones that involve running and lifting
things and moving fast physically
physiologically males have an advantage
yeah that's why we have these
distinctions and that's why we have
men's divisions and women's divisions
over hundreds and hundreds of years ago
you know what it's just not fair so fair
you know but you know I mean is it the
like that's the that's the notion of
fairness we have now you know I think
the interesting thing about the question
trans athletes is it's gonna challenge
that notion it's going to lead to
conversations like this one you know I
think that's really cool and that's what
I think we're sort of we should be down
to have as a society talking about
things especially when there's a
disagreement is the only way to solve
them yeah but you know I think these
conversations oftentimes become the
shouting matches and I you know
everybody digs their heels in as you
were talking about before about happy
identities get really locked into ideas
that they've held strong to whether it's
I did an identities about religion or
identities about politics right I mean
that's why when you were talking about
alphas and betas people like wise a show
getting political this is how dorky
people get yeah there's nothing
political about that yeah but you think
it's political because it represents
these rigid ideology exactly it was it
would be stumbled across something that
was like a really deep those men's
rights activist types then they connect
that to their to their national politics
into their sex gender politics and
everything and and it was just like just
the idea of questioning that really set
them off right but what I'm about is
questioning all these things you know
this conversation that we had this
disagreement to the extent that we were
disagreeing I think is a really good one
to have you know and I'm always testing
what I think I know and trying to sort
of undermine it and say like do I know
this for sure I mean dude on our show we
have done more than one segment we've
another one coming out later this year
where we like go back and we correct our
own mistakes we correct the things that
we've done wrong on our show what was a
big one let's see a really big one that
we have coming out I'll give you a
preview we did one about there was we
did a topic about sugar and fat about
how you know Americans were like
obsessed with cutting fat the low-fat
craze right
and a lot of that was a there was an
early research there was early research
by this one researcher who showed that
sugar caused a lot of heart disease you
know and obesity and stuff like that and
the basically the sugar lobby shut him
down you know and you know were sort of
funding research that really showed that
that was the problem and that research
sort of took over and that really led to
the sort of anti fat craze right right
we did a story on that topic we later
found out that like sort of the way that
we had characterized the story of that
happening was not accurate you know was
or does that make sense like the the
narrative part of it like it's true this
guy's research existed
it's true that the sugar Lobby hated us
you know but the research that showed
that fat is bad you know that fat causes
heart disease as well it wasn't like
totally shitty research and like this
sort of narrative isn't the only reason
that that other research taught a favor
does that make sense and so we talked
about that as a way that like the story
of there was this good guy researcher
who is sort of like stifled by the bad
guy researcher in a lobby sort of
mislead us down that list it's more than
that exactly and that's what happens
when you're doing a show that has you
know six-minute segments right yeah
that's what I was getting on it's like
when we were talking about earlier like
the time constraints on some subjects
like think about how much time we spent
just talking about trans people and
trans athletes yeah our Ally's two sis
males yeah you know talk about something
you have no personal experience in and
that's one of the reasons we've want to
do that topic on the show but we're like
man we really want to do justice to it
and it's really hard to do in six
minutes
so I'm gonna go longer in my in my
career I'm looking to find ways to go
longer well why can't you do it online
like like say if that n-c-double-a
doesn't contract it takes some issues
that you would like to talk about and
like that the the network wouldn't let
you talk about like n-c-double-a
couldn't you do like your own version of
it yeah total I mean I'd have to find a
way to fund it you know definitely not
Adam ruins everything yeah I totally
believe that show I mean so far I've
talked about a year right and I do want
to say by the way we talk about the the
thing that we have a very cool Network
they that was the one time they ever
killed the topic and what they did allow
us to do was in an episode we have
coming out later this year we talked
about on the show the fact that they
killed that topic and we we talked about
how add you know we're on advertising
supported TV and occasionally we tear
into advertisers you know and
occasionally we have to have a
conversation in the network where the
network says actually Gatorade kind of
sponsors the network and you're talking
about Gatorade and then we have to have
a conversation we still to get it did
our Gatorade topic but we had to have a
talker too you know a sugary sports
drinks we talked it okay all of the
sports drinks over emphasized hydration
as a problem you know and so we you know
we did a whole segment examining how
much does advertising affect the show
right
and and as a result of the NCAA we had
to kill that segment and the network let
us say that on TV so that was really
that was really cool that they allowed
us to like bring up that conflict on the
show but ya know there's nothing
stopping me from going on the internet
it's just it just so happens that you
know I'm a comic and you know I had the
wonderful opportunity I've always wanted
to have my own TV show and I the
wonderful opportunity to create one if I
hadn't had that chance for five years
ago I would have I would probably be on
YouTube right now doing like you know
hour-long explainer videos with me doing
jokes straight to camera and I love
folks who do that like like and you know
maybe I'll maybe I'll find myself doing
that again someday but right now I'm
just like too busy making it's hard
enough doing sixteen episodes of TV a
year to like also figure out how to
write and research a thing that's
straight to camera but you'd only
imagine you you did start out doing that
right you started out on YouTube yeah in
college humor we I was a writer there
and I developed Adam ruins everything
while I was there and then we sold it to
truTV I will say on my my live shows now
I I've just been on tour with my new
show mind parasites which is like me
trying to figure out how what I do how
to do what I do in a stand-up context
right and so I took that all across the
country I'm hoping to set up some more
date soon it's this really cool show
about how these biological parasites
that control like their host minds like
this fungus that takes control of an ant
and like let's see a lot of weird things
like it's like literally their minds
become controlled on this parasite that
infects them and I use that a way to
talk about I use that as a way to talk
about the cultural parasites that are
controlling our minds like advertising
like the social media algorithm like
alcohol in my case I put drinking
recently how long about a year ago dance
it no not at all no not at all man I'm
sorry I'm really sorry I know you'd love
to get me in a must moment and oh my
make a lot less news wait right away did
you yeah I'll cause bad for you but yeah
so that's that show is me going longer
right and I'm on stage for as a theme
it's a theme yeah it's like got a title
it's got a it's got sections and I'm
writing out as a theme like initially as
yeah like
a framework for it yeah I did and and
that was so hard to write because as a
comic you're used to going up and just
like well just gonna riff on a new idea
oh that's a chunk and then I'll combine
it with that other chunk and then that's
my special right but I was like hey I
want to figure out a way to do what I do
which is like come up with an argument
and and some information and put it in a
framework so I was like all right mind
parasites I'll talk about these
biological parasites I also want talk
about advertising time to write some
jokes and that was hard as hell to do a
felt like doing it backwards but I
worked it out a lot on stage and
eventually found it and the shows really
really click and now I'm really alright
chef and I were just talking about that
because Ari Shaffir is doing that with
his most recent hour his most reading
recent hours entirely about his history
in Orthodox Judaism he was serious
Orthodox Jew spent a lot of time and in
Israel like living in one of those
religious commune type deals what do
they call those Rivas oh yeah what'd
they call it yeah yeah I think yeah I
think it's what he studied the the
Talmud and the Torah he studied that all
daily know that yeah I mean he's with 12
hours a day
Wow and then so this is nonsense the
fuck am i doing that became Ari and so
his most recent special that he's in the
middle of creating right now it's called
Jew and it's the first time that he's
ever done a total special from top to
bottom on one necessary act and he's
piecing it together like a sort of in
many ways it was influenced by some of
the hours that he saw when he went to
Edinburgh yeah and saw the festival but
he'd said that he wanted to do an
American style whereas they had these
themes but they didn't necessarily
emphasize the punchlines yeah and the
stand up and the left that's the same
problem I that's the same problem I had
because when you're writing that way you
need to make a point and that's often
hard like you're like all right that
joke was pretty good but I need I could
juice it more but I need to get to the
next point you know yeah and so that's a
challenge with writing that way but I've
just been doing it enough on stage that
I've been able to like you know like
it's it's look I'm not gonna say I'm the
funniest guy on the planet when T's
motherfucker ever but like it's got the
punch lines I wanted to have you know
it's awesome you know
cool think about it that way too is a
framework and then start from there I
know Chris Titus does it that way too
yeah a lot of guys do it that way
whether they'll try to make a framework
and then have all their ideas fit inside
of that framework yeah I mean the the
thing that I found out is the reason ice
people ask me how I got into this you
know and I was just a comic in New York
just going up on stage and you know
after a while you learn how to make
people laugh but you don't know how to
make people give a shit about you
right like okay Greg I'm force an
audience to make a noise all at once you
know I mean but I can't make them and
remember me right and so when I started
talking about the stuff that I've
learned you know just an information
sponge I just pick up shit like this you
know and I started talking about you
know I'll do you know that the diamond
engagement ring was a scam on the part
of the De Beers Corporation in the 30s
and everyone just forgot now we think
it's tradition right that was the first
but I ever did that with those my most
sort of famous signature bit people
started paying more attention you know
and oh my god I didn't realize that you
know and now I'm in this weird niche no
one else does what I do I do like
educational investigative comedy right
when you watch me you laugh and then
also you learn some mind-blowing shit
that you're gonna remember a year from
now you know and no one else is doing it
and so the cool thing about it is when I
go up there I'm not running in this you
said earlier make your own race you know
or like don't run the same race as
everybody else ever every other comic
I'm like everywhere comics trying to win
the 100-meter dash and maybe Usain
Bolt's in the race with them right
that's Bill burr whoever's you know what
I mean Usain Bolt's trying to beat them
and they're like fuck I can be pretty
fast but I'm never gonna be number one
you know I'm running a race I'm the only
person doing this you know like I'm just
doing a race off to the side where like
my show if you go to see Bill Byrd
there's more punch lines per second per
sure for sure right you're gonna you're
but on my show you're gonna learn about
some weird bugs and you're gonna think
differently about social media you know
you're gonna you're gonna come away with
a new idea
yeah I've engineered it that way and and
so that's what I try to tell other
comics when they're just talking you
know when people see my show know how'd
you read this I'm like just figure out
what you can give people that other
people aren't giving them you know and
like it's possible to write in a
different in a different way you know I
miss doing straights - like I have my
straight stand up hour or I just go and
I tell you might stupid observations
about shit you know
and I love doing that material but that
material is not gonna get me a Netflix
special you know because it's not
different enough you know I see what
you're saying so you've kind of like you
have a strategy for a little bit yeah
yeah what's also what I want to talk
about you know just cynical but yeah
yeah yeah it's not like you're being
disingenuous who you are yeah yeah it's
cool that you found a niche like that
you found this little groove that you
could cut into and it's worth you I have
a few bits that I do that are scientific
reality that people don't believe in or
the people wouldn't imagine until you
hear about a particularly biological
stuff but but mine parasites is one
we've brought up in this podcast fucking
thousand times yeah that's a pulse kyon
who's that Robert Sapolsky from Stanford
who's a top researcher and one of the
top researchers talk to Toxoplasma oh
yeah I talk about that a little bit in
my show yeah listen to his lectures on
it's you know that stuff is nuts
the toxoplasmosis is wild 15 million
Americans have it yeah probably me yeah
in your brain the cat parasite and my
understanding I watched I got this guy's
research the research that I saw was
like not quite definitive enough to be
able to say this affects your behavior
it's like they think maybe probably so I
was like that's not enough for me for my
show but like so you know I talked about
but I'd you know what I talked about is
the way that like the social media
algorithm right is designed it's just
like evolution right it's like it's just
testing on you every single second
you're online instead of trying to see
whether the genes perpetuate themselves
this test is saying can I get you to
click are you upset are you gonna engage
exactly a nice way to get you engaged to
piss you off exactly and if I can get
you to click all they do is they just
reproduce that same stimuli with little
changes just like evolution and by doing
that they're able to control our
behavior in a real fucking way and
people know this you know but it really
is happening to you do you listen in Sam
Harris's podcast I've heard a couple
times yeah he's got a great one I'm
pulling up right now that I just
recommend yesterday but I'm gonna
recommend it again because it's that
fucking good and it's about Facebook and
about how this is all set up it's called
the trouble with Facebook and the guy's
name is Roger McNamee me nem but it's
episode 152
yeah
it's really fascinating because one of
the things they take into consideration
is that this company Facebook makes
their money off of collecting your data
the best way to collect your data is to
get you to engage the best way to get
you engaged is put things in your
newsfeed they're gonna piss you off yeah
and it's like they're this division
that's that's rising in this country is
coincides yeah social media and it's not
coincidentally and here's the thing they
don't even the really fucked up part is
the people who created these algorithms
that is not their intent they're not
trying to piss you off and they're not
trying to create division all they're
doing is they're like look we just want
people spend as much time on the site as
possible yeah
algorithm watch what they're doing and
give them more like that right and then
it's what's happening accidentally and
so then when we're all looking at
Facebook on like look what Facebook's
doing they're like what are you talking
about right it's just about we don't
need to change anything
you know just we just have an algorithm
yet rewards engagement yeah I know I
know that you I know that you had a Jack
Dorsey on I did not hear that interview
I just know you had them on couple
tongue I know that people are pissed off
at what you know like and my own
personal piss off with them is that like
they don't they don't take enough
ownership of it you know like and that's
not just I don't want to spoke asonde or
Zuckerberg is the worst with it you know
that they these algorithms are causing
these behaviors and then they're saying
oh that's not oh no we're not doing that
we've just like we're just trying to get
people to be on the site more like it's
like connect people you think they don't
change it well what if they had no
algorithm what if they just allowed it
to exist as just a virtual message board
you know Twitter no moderators Twitter
said well that's that's a problem itself
right cuz like that's like okay a
virtual message board with no moderators
is like um like let's just talk about
fighting for instance right like okay
when you've got a UFC fight right you've
got a referee right you've got a
situation you've creative got you've got
a ring
you know you've set things up so hey
people are gonna get hurt but not more
than you want them to right no
moderators that's like hey let's have a
street fight with nobody watching right
no one's there's no rules there's an
unlimited number of people in there's
just people wailing on each other well
people are gonna get hurt you know so
like I think when you are
creating the platform you're creating
the place where the discussion is
happening you have a responsibility for
what kind of discussion happens in that
place you know because you're the one
who set up the ground rules you know
they're trying to do that with YouTube
for a while they were trying to say that
like if you have a YouTube page and your
comments are filled with anti-semitic
hate that you can get in trouble for
that mmm hey you were supposed to clean
up your comments and that people want
what the fuck are you talking about and
YouTube was like oh forget it yes I
think that should be on YouTube right
that's it YouTube YouTube is the one
that allowed that to happen in the
comments youtube's the ones saying that
we're not gonna moderate anything yeah
good day how can they well I mean you
you you literally need physical
moderators yeah I know and then that's
the contradiction that they're basically
people there's so many people yeah and
this is the issue with Facebook this is
the issue with Twitter the real question
is like who gets to decide what is
offensive what is not I'm sure you're
aware of the learn to code fiasco oh I
hated her and her saying learn to code
and it was really mocking this idea that
people were telling coal miners who are
losing their jobs you know hey those
jobs in computer programming yeah you
should learn to code yeah well started
mocking people by saying learn to code
and then learn to code apparently
according to Jack Dorsey and viga it
got connected to anti-semitic remarks
and hate remarks and I started out this
level of internet this is nonsense it's
fascinating because that doesn't mean
anything learn to code is not offensive
yeah well it's ridiculous to ask a 50
year old man who's a coal miner to learn
to code and doesn't have a formal
education that is ridiculous but I mean
the fact that you get banned for life
from saying that that's actually even
more ridiculous yeah but then there are
cases where people go and they try to
create like a if someone if someone who
look there are anti-semites out there
right they do try to come up with like
way is to indicate anti-semitism to each
other that other people won't detect you
know what I mean via you know slang
basically inter slang right and at some
point someone needs to be able to say
okay wait hold on this is we figured out
this an ad Semitic slang so we're not
going to allow you to say
you know what I mean it's like shit like
88 or what is another thing where it's
left out this is the problem right this
is the exact problem that you're talking
about so but the contrary the
contradiction that all of these
platforms have right is the early days
of the internet remember the early days
it was like people were really concerned
that people would start suing websites
because what was on the website right
like like The Pirate Bay the big torrent
site you know like you're gonna get sued
because you've got DVD screeners on
there no hold on SEC we're just this is
just where people can upload the shit
you know Google getting sued because
they would you know direct someone of
the DVD experience they searched for a
leech DVD screener you know what I mean
and so that was a big concern in the
early days of the internet right and so
we established this precedent that like
no no these sites don't have a
responsibility for that right there just
how people are connecting to things
they're not the people doing the bad
shit right you go after the people doing
the bad shit not the people who made it
possible to find the bad shit right now
though we're in such a place where so
all these businesses built themselves on
the idea of YouTube right we don't make
anything at YouTube we just give you a
place to upload your videos right so at
first that's fine all right just take
down the anti-semitic you know white
supremacy videos all right right but now
there's so so many of them right and
also not only that YouTube's algorithm
is directing people towards them and
YouTube is selling ads against them and
making money at them right and at the
same time like you know these these
videos exist right and at the same time
they're still trying to say well we have
no responsibility for that happens like
hold on you guys built a system where
any kind of content is allowed and you
are you've also bought the citizen
that's directing people to that content
and you built a system that's making
money off of that content think you guys
have a little bit of responsibility now
I agree that the question of who
police's it or whatever that's an
extremely complicated conversation but
like that's what I'm just saying but
these companies trying to have it both
ways they're trying to say we have no
responsibility for what's on the
platform but also we've allowed this
kind of content to go up you know I
don't know if YouTube
profits on anti-semitic videos I don't
know I talked about in my share of ad
monetizing aspect
of YouTube that affects people whenever
anything even remotely controversial
controversial
they've started they've started doing
that up until like there was a case I
talked about in my show like a year or
two ago where they were like running
Under Armour brand Under Armour ads on
like white supremacy YouTube videos you
know then yeah
and that was like and their algorithm
was causing their algorithm was causing
that to happen right and these are
videos getting a hundred thousand two
hits and it was like major brands and
those brands found out Wow and then I
don't know these video like what kind of
I don't they say obvious anti-semitic
things and these were these were obvious
enough that anybody would be pissed off
about him yeah and so that's where the D
monetization thing came from right
because they're like oh shit now the
people who actually pay us the
advertisers are pissed off right so okay
let's put a bandaid on the problem and
let's do monetize videos right here's
the problem now they're doing that
they're just doing that algorithmically
right they're choosing which videos to D
monetize algorithmically so sometimes
the Deamonte eye stuff that they
shouldn't that's definitely happened a
ton and a lot of shit is still getting
through the cracks you know and again
they're saying okay we did what we did
what we had to know you guys didn't
solve the fucking problem because now
people are pissed off again right so
that is the vine that these companies
are in they're based on this premise of
we don't monitor ate anything but when
you do that a lot of shit comes in and
now you're in the position where sorry
it's still your house the shit's
happened in your house you through the
house party dude likes like the vase got
broken it's your fault at the end of the
debt you have to take some
responsibility for it and well how am I
supposed to police 200 kids I don't know
you're the one who threw the party you
know that's a good at the scale that's
the problem
yeah be more with 200,000 kids in a
house totally because it's unmanageable
yeah when you think about how many
different people are on YouTube and how
many different countries are uploading
videos and you know some of them are
Isis beheading videos yeah those those
like there's a bunch of cartel videos
that people have sent me to on YouTube
and they stay up for a little while yeah
you get to watch some horrible shit for
a little while before they catch on or
like I talked about these videos in my
show where like the the weird nonsense
kids videos on YouTube or it's like
people in spider-man costumes doing like
weird community theater you know what I
mean in like with spider-man else'
videos or like
there's so many if you look at kids
YouTube it's still so full of it like
they've tried to stamp it out there's
still tons of it in these videos like
literally I show a video which is just
total nonsense like looks like it was
made by a computer it's just weird
garbage doesn't look wrong until you
actually watch it closely and then
you're like this video is saying weird
nonsense the video has 600 million views
right and it's just garbage right and I
have literally spent my whole life
trying to make good Internet content
make conda's the funny entertaining that
people like and I can't get close to
that number of hits and it's because the
algorithm is controlling what people are
watching right so people reacting
towards people towards nonsense so that
people are watching this because it has
Elsa or spider-man or they're watching
this they're watching it because they're
a five-year-old and the video was given
to them up next by YouTube and the
videos title and keywords and like
content has managed to hack the
algorithm find the weird edge case in
the algorithm that put it in front of
those kids over and over it you've seen
the ones where they break down those
videos where it's yeah weird like
there's always like a baby and alcohol
yeah and someone always gets hurt from a
broken bottle like over and over and
over again these things happen they do
that because it's sort of like they've
found that people make those videos have
found how to hack the out because
algorithms are not that smart right
they're not brilliant things they're
just like a little bit of code it's just
like in a video game you know when
you're playing a video game and you like
figure out you're like oh the video game
thinks that when X happens I'm trying to
do Y but now that I figured that out I
can exploit that right I can figure out
how to freeze that guy in place or or
just like when you're a kid and you
could figure how to scroll the enemies
off the screen in NES games go left then
right oh they disappear you know you
could figure out how to how to hack the
algorithm that's what the people who
make these videos have done with the
algorithm as well they figure out a
little hole in a way that works and they
figure out oh if we just do this the
video will get shown again and again and
again and here's the thing
70% of all videos watched on YouTube are
being served by the algorithm 70% people
watching a billion hours of YouTube the
day so so people are not choosing what
we're watching the algorithms choosing
and the people that the videos the
algorithm is showing us are the ones
that people are like hacking you know
like these weird fucked up videos it's
algorithm yeah that is really
interesting and it's also interesting
these companies have figured this thing
out like I don't know if you ever get
you see like whenever I post something
there will always be like if I post
something on Instagram there will be
look within the first second or two four
or five of these accounts that like are
you just gonna pretend I don't have a
giant booty and you're like what is this
and you go to it and it's a weird sneaky
sort of computer-generated thing where
it'll say it on with a bunch of
different accounts yup the exact same
thing with emojis and then you go to it
and some ripped off pictures of some
girl with a big ass yeah and then
somehow or another they're trying to get
you yeah they've capitalized on this
comment section right to find people
that have posts that get a lot of
comments you get a lot of views and then
they go right to it
and yeah that's that's how they tap into
it and that's my point of how this works
right so Instagram set up a set up a
comment system these people have figured
out how to hack the comment system to
get their bullshit spam on the top when
I seconds I mean so fast they couldn't
possibly written it yeah like it has to
be a program and that's and that's
instagrams fault for allowing that to
happen at the end of the day you know
what I mean like that's instagrams
problem to solve you know and that's the
problem all these platforms have that's
the problem YouTube has that's a problem
twitter has and so whenever they say oh
no it's just a couple bad apples it's
like you guys through the party you guys
figure out how to fix it you're a shitty
orchard son yeah YouTube's amazing in
that you know you really can be
entertained with things like for someone
who's into obscure things
yeah ocular it's one of the best
resources ever yeah I made that career
off of YouTube yeah I mean it's but it's
also like if you want to watch old
things you want to watch interesting
things but you can find almost
everything on YouTube and you having
things that are not true let's this is
like where they're cracking down on
certain things it's there are videos
it's a library of alexandria man like I
remember there used to be like in New
York I never actually went and did this
but there was like a museum that had
like lots of old archival TV you know
you could go back you could watch it the
first episode of Johnny Carson or
whatever you know what I mean I was like
oh that's so cool right now you don't
need to go to that library you can just
it's literally on YouTube the first
episode of Johnny Carson ever is on you
to who was the guest I don't remember I
don't think I'm exaggerating I have seen
it on the web I saw like his very first
appearance sure it's up there or at
least the early what yeah because maybe
the early ones weren't taped but it was
like super super early he's got like
back hair you know and so like you know
every episode of The Daily Show ever is
on the Internet
you know and so and you know say you
like you know name some of the Senators
I go some of that just go watch you name
an old jazz musician you can what go
watch and play live you know I mean
watch the loneliest monk close-ups of
his hands you know what I mean that's
incredible that's incredible and so like
and I still hope in my heart of hearts
that like that is at the end of the day
YouTube is serving a good purpose
because we still have access to all that
information you know my videos do pretty
well on YouTube my videos aren't aren't
white supremacists you know spider-man
nonsense they're good you know so
hopefully they're doing some good in the
world but at the you know as I hope in
my heart of hearts that like you know
this is still a positive force for
Humanity I think it's a positive force
but overall the problem that we're
talking about with its problem with
YouTube or the problem with the Facebook
algorithm or any of these things it's
people that suck that's the problem yeah
it's not it's not people that are
putting up videos of Thelonious Monk
it's not ya know someone making
something educational on vitamins or
something like that it's bullshit yeah
the bullshit's the problem the problem
is people exploiting the system and
using that system to stick nonsense or
or bad things up there but if you're the
company that's allowing that bullshit to
happen and you make money off of it but
I you know it's an issue but it's also
it's like part of it is really
interesting to me like part I don't like
the fact it's all this I don't like the
fact there's some ungodly number of kids
that think the fucking world is flat
because they watching YouTube videos no
one who is there while the guy was
making the YouTube video go stop that's
not true yes I'll show you how this is
how you do it there you go there's the
data
okay next keep going stop that's not
true either you don't know fuck you're
talking about of course it works like
that this is why it works like that and
this is what it means did you see our
video on the moon landing no oh this is
one my favorite videos we ever did so
you know it's about how the moon land
the the thesis is the moon landing could
not have been faked it would have been
harder to fake the moon landing then it
would have been to actually go to the
moon because the technology to fake it
did not exist like when we talked to a
forensic film guy right who's like
spends he's got like he's got a fucking
Oscar for you know analyzing old films
right and he
just through it he's like look the
shadows are parallel right they're not
diverging you know a closed light source
the shadows would diverge right so wait
a minute you know that that's like one
of the big arguments for the moon hoax
is that the shadows intersect the
shadows indicate multiple light sources
well that is because when you want the
main argument that's that that is a I
believe that's reflected light okay I'm
getting past my memory of this segment
yeah dude I used to be a full-on moon
hoax or I fully believed we never went
to my shoulda brought this I watched the
documentary that was on Fox TV was on
news radios like 1995 my favorite
sitcoms ever by the way that is a
unacknowledged classic I have watched
the whole series like three times that
show is so I'm sorry just go ahead well
anyway um
back then Fox News actually aired a full
one-hour show called called conspiracy
theory did we land on the moon and it
had me fully convinced yeah there was
all this shit that they showed like the
same background being used in multiple
moon missions that were supposed to be
on completely different parts of the
moon like house as possible they're
supposed to be like nowhere near each
other but they have the same background
and that is it looks like the astronauts
are on wires and it looks like the light
sources or their multiple light sources
and the shadows are intersecting and
yeah you know all the fucking astronauts
when they came back they did this Apollo
11 post flight press conference and
looked like they're completely full of
shit I was all in dude oh yeah
all in and they're all out no I realize
I don't know what the fuck I'm talking
yeah one of the we all need them with
being all in with in with anything but
we also found that they did fake some
things for publicity purposes
photographs that were used that were
photographs from tests that they did
inside a warehouse with all safety
equipment and then they blacked out all
the safety equipment in the background
and pawned those photos off as spacewalk
photos but I think that's overzealous
publicist that doesn't mean no one went
to space I was like making leaps
is about what's the simplest explanation
if you did fake some footage well it's
probably a bunch of simple explanations
but overzealous publicist people wanted
to show people video that they didn't
have video of maybe the the photos
didn't come out so well so they faked
some of them well let me the the thing
about the shadows diverging my memory of
this is we don't talk about that when
people say they see the shadows diverge
right if you actually go outside on a
sunny day when you have a single point
of light like that with light reflecting
you will see two shadows of yourself
going a different there's one dominant
shadow and then there's a there's a
secondary one right yeah but if the shed
if the Sun is actually far away right
for the main shadow you will see the
same shadows be parallel right if you
had a close light source like on a film
on a film set you see the shadows to
verge right so if this film forensic guy
come on and tell us look if you wanted
to get perfectly straight light like
that you would need lasers you would and
you would also but you'd also need
multicolored lasers because at the time
all that existed were red lasers right
they had not existed they not invented
anything other than red lasers right so
NASA would have had to have multi like
multi-decade advanced laser light
technology in order to fake this another
part of it is if they just hired Kubrick
I can't figure it out no this is what we
demonstrate in our segment you know
another part of it is people forget the
moon broadcast the moon landing
broadcast was something like a six-hour
live broadcast with no cuts you know and
at the time that was something you could
do with TV but you literally couldn't do
it with film right there was no way to
record film sorry there's no ready to
record TV at the time you had live TV
and you had recorded film right so if
they were gonna record it in advance
right and then play it back they would
have needed a six hour long reel of tape
the rival commercials and there won't
believe so and so they would have had to
would they so we should probably know if
there was commercials fair point game
but you know you would have needed like
an enormous film canister didn't exist
it but if anybody's gonna have an
enormous film canister it would be those
fucking hoaxers at NASA well part of the
premise of the part of the premise of
the we didn't go to the moon argument is
that we don't have the technology to go
to the moon so they faked it right but
it's like okay well if you have to
postulate that they had decades ahead
it's time filmmaking technology why
can't you accept that they just went to
the fucking moon you know so that at the
end when you go through all the things
that would have to happen right in order
to make it have you really go through it
and look at what is the simplest
explanation the simplest explanation is
that we went to the moon because it
would have been fucking easier I don't
know if it would have been easier if it
was impossible to go to the moon it
would be insanely difficult to fake no
doubt but if you had an incredible
budget and if you had someone who really
had the very top of the food chain
knowledge in terms of special effects
what Kubrick did in 2001 one was when
was that when the 2001 come out one say
like 71 or some shit yeah selling like
that when does that come out uh let's
see yeah look it up I think that's
really ER than that maybe 68 68 okay so
we're talking about before the moon
landings Kubrick had some pretty
astonishing special effects in 2001 yeah
but the the I mean the argument is that
like even given again this is like
filmmaker saying this given the film
technology of the time the specific
features that we see in the moon footage
are not faked about you know another
part of it is for instance the slow
jumping right the slow boom you know
you're on the moon
right the big argument that the moon
truthers make is that it was regular
speed footage and it was slowed down
right and there's this dude on I can't
wear the name of it but if you see a
filmmaker on YouTube right he just
breaks down why like the ability to over
crank and like shoot and slo-mo like
that like didn't that wasn't how film
cameras worked at the time you know and
so you know couldn't you're good you're
good asking questions cuz you asked me
to get into details that I don't have on
my head but that's the art that's the
argument that that the dude makes it's
not one of the argument that we make
specifically on our show because we only
had six minutes so we pressed once I
also know about well how much your
audience do you think is going to be
fucking furious at me for talking about
this because they believe the moon
landing was faked it's always a number
man there's a number of yeah I think
that vaccines cause autism you know I
had a dr. Peter Hotez on here
who is an expert in tropical diseases
and autism safety and he's explaining
that they've isolated five environmental
factors that think contribute to autism
when it's in the child's womb they've
isolated genes they think they've got an
understanding of what's causing this or
how it's how at least it's happening but
it's happening in the womb they don't
think there's any connection yeah
vaccines and autism they think there's
people who have autism who get
vaccinated in their autism symptoms
yeah show up but they were probably
going to have those symptoms anyway yep
and there's a human correlation that
they make yep it doesn't mean that some
people don't get it verse Li affected by
vaccines because people have very
strange reactions to all sorts of things
because we very biologically it doesn't
mean that vaccines are giving people
autism and when you say that people go
fuckin ballistic and yeah the comments
fill with hate and Zionist shill and
this and that yeah this it's wild I get
that shit a lot but but what we're doing
here you and I even if we disagree this
is what I think is one of the most
important things of our time is the
ability to have reasonable conversation
I agree and I try to tell people when
they disagree with me because when
people come at me with a lot of heat on
the internet you know a lot times I
don't have time to get into it you know
but I do like to occasionally you know
reply and say you know some of the oh
you're so full of shit like you lied
about this and that bah bah bah bah you
know and I try to can do it say and I
and I say hey thanks for watching the
show you know I don't feel that we lied
this what our evidence says you know
what what do you think you know I try to
take their temperature down you know and
I don't match their anger is the most
important part I'm like much nicer than
their anger demands you know and that
usually cools them off right away when
we have a conversation you know and a
lot of the time when I do that they
leave going ok you know what we we don't
disagree that much you know or or ok
thanks for talking to me you know yeah
but the most important thing I say to
them is even if I don't turn them around
on whatever the issue was I say okay
they say I'm never gonna watch your show
again because you lied about this you
know or cuz I disagree but you're wrong
about this I'm never watching a show
again and I say ok why would you never
watch the show again just because you
disagree with me about one thing like I
watch tons of stuff with people I don't
disagree you
like they don't really mean that they
just want you to feel bad yeah yeah I'm
never watching you again followed like
does anybody think it's a good idea to
only consume shit that you already agree
with I think it's better to challenge
yourself and to watch things that you
that you don't agree with all the time
now Fox News at least one hour every
week do you really have to watch yeah
get an hour and just go what the fuck
yeah I mean there's a lot of you know
they're like I want to know what white
people are really up to when they're
around me they lie I need to know what
Laura Ingraham she's go for laughing at
Nipsey Hussle 's funeral that was but
very bizarre strange it's very very
strange to be laughing to be so dialed
in to that look I understand when you're
in when you're one of those hosts right
you have a message you're dialed into it
you got to say that message every single
day every single time you're like I'm
your model maniacal about it and you
know what I mean but to do that about
about someone's death specifically
bizarre you know and that sort of gives
you sometimes I think that TV shows are
like a curse you know like I feel for
anybody who has to be on TV every day
because they their life narrows down to
that little camera lens and they can't
have a thought outside of it you know
what I mean so all those people Tucker
Carlson Rachel Maddow Laura Ingraham you
know what I mean like they like chambers
yeah apart from me disagreeing with you
know some of them on various things I
disagree with all those folks on
occasion like to live your life right in
that land saying the same thing every
night it must really impoverish your
point of view and in a way that's really
a bummer and me seeing her do that was
like yeah that's a great perspective
impoverishing your point of view I think
you're onto the thank you i I mean
that's when I saw that when I saw that
clip of her I was like I can't I can't
believe you know but it's T being on TV
makes you a crazy person it probably
does man and with them with Laura
Ingraham was also they just played a
clip of one of Nipsey Hussle videos from
one of the songs that was called fuck
Donald
Trump yeah and they were mocking the
song and laughing about look it's not
about that guy's art the guy's dead he
is murdered in Los Angeles and obviously
you look at all the hundreds of
thousands of people that are mourning
him in the streets they loved him yeah
why did they love him maybe look at that
maybe because he was giving back to the
community maybe he's because the guy
became successful and still wanted to be
in the community and help people out
maybe because he was a positive
influence on a lot of young people yeah
so he had a song called fuck Donald
Trump whatever and the work you know the
worst thing I think what's that he's on
that song but it's not his who's talking
yg what is the one cuz ice-cubes got a
dope song about the president he might
might be like kill the arrest the
president the president pretty fucking
good you know the worst thing that I
think is his new ice-cubes new shit the
worst thing I think that people say is
like the the perspective that she had
was okay because he doesn't like Donald
Trump he's not worthy of respect right
I'm not I'm not gonna be sad he's dead
because he said something to me about
Donald Trump right that is such a
malignant version of the way that so
many people feel like the most
frustrating thing people say to me is um
you know on our comp no comments page on
YouTube page this guy's a liberal this
guy's a Democrat so I'm not gonna listen
to it I'm like okay well first of all we
criticize Democrats and liberals all the
time on the show you know so those
people are like do a responsibility like
doesn't Adam Conover realize he's
criticizing a Democrat priority and I'm
like yeah I thought I'm you know like we
are we do not do a political show you
know look I live in Los Angeles right I
went to college I didn't vote for Donald
Trump you know what I mean
like most people who didn't alright so
I'm gonna I'm gonna fess up to that
right why does that mean that you would
never listen to anything I ever had to
say or that you would treat me with
disrespect right cuz they're trying to
make you feel bad bro I'm talking about
it right now so they win yeah okay we
can move off of it but you know that
idea of someone who disagrees with me is
like not a person who I'm gonna listen
to anymore what what a bummer those are
the people from all perspectives and I
thought that's my goal even more
insidious what they're doing is they're
trying to say this whole life that was
just lost is this one
clip that says fuck the fuck down now
that's so stupid
he's obviously a lot of things like
that's quote mining you're taking a
little tiny piece of some things that he
did out of context and you're putting it
on your show and then you're mocking his
death and it's it's it's unfortunate but
again I think it's these echo chambers
these people think it's okay to do that
yeah they know that the other people
that are like them I'm gonna react the
same way like why the guy had a song
called fuck Donald Trump I mean hey fuck
you oh yeah and then they just get they
all just repeat that and they feel like
that's like the people that were shocked
that Trump won they couldn't believe
anybody would vote for Trump cuz
everybody around you would not yeah you
get stuck in these echo chambers you
don't understand how other people
outside see it yeah and I think that's
what's happening you know with this it's
a hundred percent sad so guys fucking
dead guy was murdered yeah we did a you
know we did a segment on on guns right
we didn't Episode on guns and I always
thought that I said at the beginning of
our show we'd never do an episode on
guns because it's too divisive and as
soon as we did the topic people everyone
would fold their arms and theirs are you
do an episode on guns well you better
say what I want you to say or I'm
changing the channel right and weed but
we'd been doing the show for four years
I was like I think we can finally do it
and here's the thing everybody is wrong
about guns that's the premise of our
show everyone's wrong about everything
you know right if you think you know
about something you probably don't and
anything any topic that I do I'm gonna
tell you something you don't know right
and so we specifically did an episode
that's about you know we we had a a you
know a gun gun rights advocate a gun
control advocate I'm talking to both of
them and they're both making mistakes
right about it and that was the point
was that like the thing that liberals
now I don't want say liberals the thing
that gun control advocates right often
failed to do is they failed to take
seriously that the gun rights advocates
are like real people who live in the
same country as them who they need to
deal with as humans right that it like
the NRA is has a lot of I'm not gonna
defend the NRA for a second right I
think the NRA is a very extreme
organization that is not productive you
know but like the average gunk and the
average gun owner in your community
right is a real person you have to deal
with right if you're just in your echo
chamber and you're not taking that
person seriously then you're not gonna
make an
progress right and so you need to you
know gun control advocates aren't just
as much need of correction you know and
just as much need of checking themselves
and you know examining their own biases
and you know getting closer to the truth
as as gun rights advocates well
particularly if you want to ever resolve
it or come to any sort of an agreement
you can't treat the other people like
they're stupid yeah like you fucking
morons don't get it okay that's not
helping anybody and now that the issue
with people that also get angry at
people who voted for Trump they want to
say they're all stupid okay you want to
say that half the country stupid mm-hmm
that's not a good idea let's yeah smart
yeah I want to say by the way reason I
said I went to college I didn't vote for
Donald Trump not because I a lot of
college a lot of people went to college
did vote for Donald Trump the trend is
that they is that they didn't vote for
him you know so I was trying to say I'm
in a different demographic but I don't
want people to think I was replying I
believe so yeah I mean that's sort of
how it breaks down like people you know
people with bas or higher tend to tend
to vote for Democrats so I'm just like
given a nod to the demographics here
this is how it works right I got to wrap
this up yeah that's the man that was a
lot of fun can you believe it holy shit
for a while thank you oh you got that I
was wondering what time it was well this
has been a real I really appreciate that
we got deep on some yeah it was fun man
I appreciate it and tell everybody when
your show is when they can watch it Adam
ruins everything son truTV we got
episodes on Netflix new episodes are
coming out probably around August don't
have an exact date yet but we're having
our next run of eight or not then more
you're thinking to do this you know
hopefully and check out my new podcast
fact Julian's no no sorry hopefully
pretty soon we will know whether we're
doing it we're between we're waiting for
a pickup right yeah I love doing the
show look I'm gonna be doing what I do
for the rest of my life no matter where
I'm doing it so oh that's a good way to
look awesome either way Adam thank you
thank you so much man thank you
[Music]